So now, brothers, we ask you to give your full attention to this musical interlude, which has been prepared especially for our annual meeting today, and we are certain that you are going to be delighted with what you're about to hear.
The maturity, shine the light of the truth, so that all make plainly seem, try your best to withstand God for true success.
There's a place in the service for what puts a thought that you may not fall.
Witnessing, everlasting good news to all sorts of people, bring joy and embrace to Jehovah God and King.
As we preach from God to know.
Those words I must have been.
Is that like some?
Brothers and sisters, welcome.
Welcome to this historic annual meeting of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania.
And we're delighted that all of you have arranged your circumstances to travel from all over the world to be present with us to mark this very, very special occasion.
Well, to begin, we have some reminders.
It is requested that no flash cameras be used during the program.
Any picture taken without flash must be taken from your seat location.
No recordings of any kind are permitted.
Cellular telephones, electronic tablets or similar devices should not be used to transmit any part of the program.
Program notes whether hard copy or electronic should not be distributed to others.
Okay, so we got the housekeeping done.
So now we can begin our meeting.
If you would all like to stand, we're going to join together in singing a very appropriate song.
Song number 30, Jehovah begins his rule.
And then following the song, Brother Viv Moritz of the Austral Asia branch will open with prayer.
Song number 30.
As our song began, this is indeed a glorious day.
It was 100 years ago that our dear brother Charles Tase Russell walked into the dining room at 124 Columbia Heights.
He clapped his hands three times.
And he said, the Gentile times have ended.
Their kings have had their day.
Well, no doubt what an exciting moment that must have been.
What it had been thrilling to be present at that moment to hear Brother Russell make that historic and earth-changing announcement.
Well, of course, Brother Russell and the early Bible students did not completely understand the significance of what had taken place.
But we cannot say that today.
We know exactly what took place at that time in 1914.
Will you open your Bibles with me?
And let's read together Revelation chapter 11 and verse 15.
The seventh angel blew his trumpet.
And there were loud voices in heaven saying,
the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ.
And he will rule as king forever and ever.
Yes, we know that at that time our king Jesus Christ was enthroned in the heavens.
And now today, 100 years later, after 100 years of kingdom rule,
this is no dull anniversary.
This is no event just to mark off on our calendar.
This is a day for us as Jehovah's people to rejoice and to thank Jehovah for all of the things that he has accomplished over this past 100 years.
Well, now we could go on and on talking about all of the kingdom's accomplishments.
But perhaps let's just discuss three that are meaningful for us today.
Here's the first, the global preaching work.
Of course, Jesus said that the good news of God's kingdom would be preached in all the inhabited earth.
Well, now in 1914, there were 5,150 publishers.
How in the world would they accomplish this work?
But as we think back, as we sit here today, we can remember our parents, our grandparents,
our great grandparents, some of you perhaps even further back.
And you remember how tirelessly these ones worked to preach the good news using every possible method.
Brother Melvin Sargent, who was baptized in 1912, said this.
Those of us inside the Lord's organization have tried in every way possible
to turn the world's attention to the message of life.
We have used slogans, full-page advertisements, radio, sound cars, portable phonographs,
gigantic conventions, parades of information walkers carrying signs,
and a growing army of house to house ministers.
Well, maybe many of you who are here today had the privilege to share in some of those events.
Well, all of that hard work has brought about wonderful fruitage.
And I'm happy to tell you today that for the very first time,
during the 2014 service year, our peak publishers have gone beyond the 8 million mark.
Isn't that a cause to rejoice today?
And we also know at this point that our more moral attendance is more than 19.5 million.
We don't have the exact figure for you.
It won't be available for a couple more weeks.
But isn't it wonderful what we do know to see how many have responded?
But brothers, the work is not finished.
Through our public and house to house preaching and through our website,
we are reaching out to more people today than perhaps we ever thought was possible.
Can you just imagine?
Our website now has been translated into 554 languages.
And publications are available on the website for download in 700 languages.
Just during the months of August and September,
we have had 1.5 million unique visitors every single day to JW.org.
Isn't that amazing to think about?
And so there is no question that the greatest preaching and disciple making work
that has ever been accomplished is happening now.
It's more than we ever could have imagined that would be done.
What a marvelous reason this is today to thank Jehovah for what he has accomplished.
But now let's consider a second area.
All of this global preaching work has not gone unnoticed.
Jesus foretold in Matthew chapter 10 and verse 22,
you will be hated by all people on account of my name.
But the one who is endured to the end will be saved.
Well, in these past 100 years, we have experienced opposition of all kinds,
bannings, persecutions, imprisonments, even exile and concentration camps.
Yet through it all, we as a nation have felt the protective care of Jehovah God.
We think back to Hitler who railed against Jehovah's witnesses.
On one occasion he screamed, this brood will be exterminated in Germany.
But what do the facts show?
When the Nazis came to power in Germany,
there were approximately 10,000 witnesses in that country.
But shortly after the war, in 1948, what did the numbers show?
They had doubled.
We had 20,811 publishers.
Hitler and his Nazi party had not exterminated Jehovah's people
despite the harsh persecution that he had brought on them.
But quite frankly, who was gone?
It was Hitler and his Nazi party.
They were long gone.
And what a victory that was for Jehovah.
Well now, these victories have not just taken place in these totalitarian nations.
During the 20th century, here in the United States,
Jehovah's witnesses won 50 victories in the United States Supreme Court,
guaranteeing and reinforcing the right to freedom of speech and freedom of religion.
And in more recent times, we have prevailed in 57 applications presented to the European Court of Human Rights.
That includes 31 outright victories and 26 friendly settlements.
Well dear brothers, this truly reminds us of what the Psalmist said in Psalm 124.
Psalm 124 will begin rating in verse 2.
If Jehovah had not been with us when men rose up to attack us,
then they would have swallowed us up alive when their anger was burning against us.
Then the waters would have washed away.
The torrent would have swept over us.
The raging waters would have overwhelmed us.
Majorhovah be praised for he has not given us his prey to their teeth.
We are like a bird that escaped from the hunter's trap.
The trap was broken and we escaped.
Our help is in the name of Jehovah, the maker of heaven and earth.
Well how true those words have been over the last 100 years for Jehovah's people.
And truly, the protective care that Jehovah has given us as a people
is a reason for us to praise him and to thank him on this day.
Would you not agree?
But then brothers, we also for a moment should consider what Jehovah has accomplished with us as individuals.
Truly we are dust.
And Jehovah has taken us from every walk of life and every background.
First Corinthians chapter 6 verses 9 to 11, what does it tell us?
Well some of us previously were fornicators, adulterers, homosexuals, greedy persons, the list goes on and on.
But what has Jehovah done with us?
Through his word, through his Holy Spirit, we have been transformed.
And over this 100 years, Jehovah has brought about a nation of Christian men and women who are upright.
From every race, from every tribe, from every people, from every language.
And as we sit here today, in this audience, we see the evidence of it.
As people of all races, nationalities, languages sit here as one family, as one people.
Brothers, this is a miracle that only Jehovah God could have achieved.
So how thankful we are to Jehovah, that he brought us out of this very dark world and allowed us to be a part of his nation.
Quite honestly, brothers, quite honestly, where would any of us be today without Jehovah?
It's a question that we do well to ponder.
Well, I'm sure you agree that in considering 100 years of kingdom rule, we have so many reasons to repeat the words of the psalmist here at Psalm 40 and verse 5.
He said, how many things you have done, oh Jehovah my God, your wonderful works and your thoughts toward us, none can compare to you.
If I were to try to tell and speak of them, they would be too numerous to recount.
Well, we have to say that's the case of all the accomplishments of God's kingdom over this 100 years.
Well, yes, it would have been exciting to be in that dining room 100 years ago at 124 Columbia Heights to hear brother Russell make that historic announcement.
But quite frankly, I think we feel more excited, more honored, more privileged to be present for this occasion to mark the 100th anniversary of the rule of the kingdom.
Well, I have to tell you, brothers, this annual meeting is going to be filled with numerous spiritual gifts and treasures.
So, let's begin. Now, for the past three years, all of us have been delighted with the animated series of videos that are entitled Become Jehovah's Friend.
Now, most of the monthly installments, as you know, have just been one or two minutes in length.
However, a much longer program has been prepared by the governing body and they've arranged for the premier showing to take place here at the annual meeting.
Well, now, just before you watch this video program, I'm sure you're going to be delighted to hear comments of appreciation from our very precious little ones.
Well, again, I appreciate feeling new for you and celebrating me all along.
Me and my brother learnt to sing.
Because I learned a lot of things from Caleb and Sophia.
Okay, don't don't see, forget about it, and say sorry.
If someone made me food, I would say thank you.
I cleaned up like Caleb does and he just cleaned up his room just like this.
And then when the car went through the hole, there was lots of shining like if people were taking pictures like...
The teddy bear went flu!
And then there was a tree.
Dad, my bear!
Oh, don't look very nice on the tree.
Then Caleb showed us that magic drawing it being.
He said, no, I don't want to have any of this stuff.
In school they like, they try to teach us about evolution.
The video helped me to learn that to help us see me as...
If child was not real, all these things that we are doing now, we don't even happen.
When you give us stuff to people, they feel happy.
Also, when you give stuff to people, you feel happy.
Do you follow what I've learned here?
When we get to the heart, right?
It brings a lot of joy, it doesn't matter if it's a present or a small one.
Because giving isn't a nice way of seeing.
I love you.
With a lot of people that are against your horror, I've been sitting here over.
How can you tell the organisation such good ideas for the children around the world and for me to know all about these things that you have taught us.
It's so amazing.
Thank you for the videos because everything in the videos are good stuff.
Thanks for the killer videos drama because they helped me to be a better sister.
I say, always give me these videos to learn about your horror.
Thank you.
Thank you, Jehovah.
I feel so bad for Zoe.
Her grandma died.
It's a tell her about Jehovah, but I got scared.
I wish I was more brave.
Sophia, you can be brave.
Tell you what, let's work on a little project together.
There's a little girl I want you to meet.
She needed boldness, too.
Hey, she looks like me.
She's very much like you.
What's her name?
Well, the Bible doesn't say.
She's in the Bible?
Yes.
Why is she scared?
She's in a strange place, far from home, surrounded by people who don't worship Jehovah.
She was taken from her family and forced to work in the home of a mighty warrior called Naaman.
Life as a slave was very hard, especially for a little girl.
The warrior was a mighty man and fearless.
He had defeated many enemies in battle.
Now he was sick.
His illness was like an enemy he could not defeat.
No one in the land knew how to help him.
You staring at it.
Get back to work.
Master, so sick.
There's no hope left in the end.
None of the gods have cured his illness.
Jehovah, can?
What did you say?
I said Jehovah.
Never say that name here.
Don't you know where you are?
We don't worship your God of Israel.
These are our gods.
You must learn to keep silent.
Master, I know what can help.
You must know what can help.
Can I get you some more food?
Fine.
Jehovah, I'm scared.
I miss my mom and dad.
Mom told me I could always call on you for help.
But nobody here wants me to talk about you.
Jehovah, I know you can help me in it.
Please make him better so he can play with his kids.
Please help me be brave so I can tell him about you.
You must learn to keep silent.
I know who can help your husband.
Jehovah, the God of Israel, my God.
His prophet can heal your husband.
He must go to him.
Hear myself.
No, there is no other God anywhere.
Only Jehovah.
Thank you little one.
Thank you for telling me about him.
She didn't know what was going to happen after she spoke up.
But she knew, no matter what happened, Jehovah would be with her.
And Jehovah will be with you too, Sophia.
I'll never be as brave as her.
Of course you will, Sophia.
You just need a little practice.
And then you will be bold too.
Do you remember what we're doing tonight?
Family worship?
Right.
Maybe tonight we can make a pretend classroom in the kitchen.
I can be Zoe.
And dad and Caleb can be the other kids.
You can practice being bold with us.
And then tomorrow you'll be all set for Zoe.
I thought I couldn't be brave.
But I learned from the little Hebrew girl.
She was just like me.
And Jehovah helped her be brave.
I'm sorry I bet you're grandma.
This is for you.
It will help you feel better.
Thank you.
See ya.
Bye.
Wanna see what I was reading on the bus?
Sure.
This book teaches about Jehovah.
Jehovah?
Yeah, that's God's name.
It tells us about a happy future for the earth.
Plus there's a bunch of pictures in here to help you learn about him.
Wanna tell people at school about Jehovah?
If I'm ever afraid, I know he'll help me.
Because he's my friend.
From Jehovah.
Well, I'm pleased to tell you that this video will be posted on jw.org
on Monday, October 6th.
But get this.
In more than 20 languages.
Isn't that wonderful?
Well, now, back in 1922, the Golden Age carried a very fascinating
climate.
Here's what it said.
Very, very far sighted.
Someday, each individual may carry in his vest pocket his own
private wireless telephone, through which he can receive
reliable news from various parts of the earth and communicate
at will with private individuals wherever they may be.
Then, too, the necessity for the phonograph will be practically
eliminated.
Well, now, those were far sighted comments, weren't they?
But now, fast forwarding to 2014 isn't it amazing to see how such
devices are being used more and more in our theocratic activities?
Well, in that regard, we have a very exciting announcement for you.
When the Christian congregation was established in 33 CE,
Jehovah clearly indicated his purpose that people of all
languages would be given opportunity to hear the good news.
Therefore, we want to do everything in our power to preach to honest
hearted persons from every nation, tribe and people in tongue.
Well, thousands of publishers have been willing to accept this
challenge and have taken on the work of learning another language.
While there are secular language learning tools available,
these are limited because they do not teach theocratic terminology.
Well, you'll be happy to know that the governing body is releasing today
the JW Language App.
This theocratic language app covers areas that are most relevant for
witnesses.
By focusing on key topics like the Ministry, meetings and doctrine,
we increase the likelihood that language students will be motivated
to immediately put their new language skills to use in the ministry.
So, please now give your attention to the following short video
which is going to introduce the JW Language App.
This application covers over 4,000 theocratic words and phrases
in 18 different languages that are spoken by more than half
of the earth's population.
In time, we hope to add additional words and phrases,
field service presentations and other features that can be used in learning
a new language.
Now, this application can be accessed from the bottom of every page on
jw.org under the heading get help for.
And it's going to be available Monday October 6, 2014.
And we are also told that it will be available from the various app
providers also on Monday morning.
So, look forward to downloading this wonderful new tool just in a couple of days.
Well, I'm sure you agree.
We are going to have many reasons to thank Jehovah by the end of this day.
But I have to tell you that's not the end.
We have yet another exciting initiative to tell you about.
The governing body is pleased to announce today, now get ready for it,
an English television station that can be accessed via Internet.
It is called JW Broadcasting.
Now, in addition to being able to view our videos on demand,
every month there will be an encouraging one-hour program
that will be hosted by a member of the governing body.
So, now I know you're very curious to see what this is all about.
So, please watch the following short video that will explain this feature
in a little bit more detail.
Getting the feeling that you like it.
Well, now, we were going to leave it at that.
But we thought that perhaps you might like to see the opening of the first
program that's going to be played during the month of October.
Would you like to see that?
So, please give your attention now as we play the first seven minutes
of the first program that will appear on JW Broadcasting.
We warmly welcome you dear brothers and sisters
for our first JW Broadcasting monthly program.
Here are some of the highlights you can look forward to.
You will hear the exciting story of a brother
who found the truth at the age of 87.
We also have an archive interview with brother Theodore Jarrah's
about how we can overcome opposition.
And you will see a music video about wildlife as a Christian
is the best life ever.
The governing body has approved this station on a trial basis initially
in the English language only, based on the response from viewers.
And your support of this new arrangement,
it is hoped that other languages will enjoy the same in the future.
In addition to having our videos available on demand,
JW Broadcasting will feature an encouraging monthly program hosted
by member of the governing body.
This month on behalf of the governing body,
I would like to address the young ones in our congregations.
But before we do so,
we thought you would like to see the behind the scenes work
that went into creating this beautiful studio.
Please watch this short explanatory video.
It is evident that JW Broadcasting has Jehovah's Blessing.
Those involved in preparing the studio, the equipment,
and the content all said that they could feel Jehovah's hand directing every step,
every decision, every day.
Upon learning of its intended purpose, many long days went into planning its design
and what it would take to construct it and have it ready as soon as possible.
Research that usually takes months was completed in days.
The purchasing department ordered hundreds of items in record time,
starting of course with the items that required the most lead time.
In the meantime, a scout team got busy searching for a suitable location
and a good one was found in the office complex at 30 Columbia Heights.
Sensing Jehovah's direction on this endeavor,
the brothers vacated the entire area in just one week.
The maintenance departments then prepared the room for television production
while the design team diligently worked on the look of the set.
Color and lighting were key pieces in conveying a dignified yet modern feel.
The approved design was then translated into an actual set by the construction team.
Many brothers and sisters from around the U.S. were called into assist.
After only a few days, the equipment started to arrive.
Miles of cables were installed.
And the technical team had to ensure that all of the pieces of hardware and software
worked well together.
Simultaneously, the orchestra was recording the theme music in our audio video studios at Patterson.
Brothers and sisters from all over the world contributed with their skills.
But a television studio is no good without content.
Video productions were immediately started by the film crews.
Scripts had to be prepared and reenactment scheduled.
When the set was finished, the equipment installed and the videos completed.
The team started rehearsing the program that you are now watching.
We asked an industry professional how long it would normally take to complete a studio and project of this size.
He said without hesitating at least a year and a half.
Yet our hard working brothers and sisters accomplished this monumental task in just two months.
This just emphasizes the fact that when Jehovah wants something done, there is nothing that can stop him.
Some of the materials and all of the work on this studio were donated, which we very much appreciate.
Still, as you can see, there was a significant outlay of funds to complete the project.
Some of you may be wondering why we would embark on a project like this here in Brooklyn
knowing full well that in a little over two years, Jehovah willing, we will be moving world headquarters to Warwick, New York.
Number one, we wanted you brothers and sisters to benefit from this initiative as soon as possible.
And two, everything acquired and purchased for this studio will be transferred to the Warwick area,
except the paint on the walls and the paint on the floor.
So really, it is an investment that we are hopeful with your support can be used on into the years ahead.
Well, this new Internet television station will be available for access in two different ways.
Access information will be found under the heading Get Help for at the bottom of every page of JW.org.
But there is another way. You can use the specific website address for this feature.
The website address is tv.jw.org.
Now, the October program and the video on Demand feature will be available on Monday, October 6, 2014.
It really is thrilling when we consider how Jehovah is making use of technology.
In order to move ahead, spearhead the preaching work and also to strengthen the faith of our dear brothers and sisters all around the earth.
We certainly thank Jehovah for these wonderful tools.
Well, now today, since we are observing the 100th anniversary of Kingdom Rule,
it is important that we take a few moments and look back and think about all of the different accomplishments of God's Kingdom.
And so, I think you're going to be delighted now to see a video that's entitled The Kingdom 100 Years and Counting.
And this will be narrated by our dear brother Samuel Heard of the governing body.
One of us are well and happy.
Every day, we're still working away. And we feel as brother Russell has said,
the Gentile times have ended and their kings have had their day.
So we know not what awaits us.
May you, day by day, keep close to the master and his presence will so cheer you that nothing shall be able to dismay you.
Edith Kessler, October 11, 1914.
At the Keenan's birth in 1914, the Bible students were not exactly sure what was going to happen,
but they knew it would be a pivotal year.
For decades, they had been seeing that the Gentile times were closing and that the kings had had their day.
And they had been using every means available to focus attention on this monumental event.
Newspapers had carried sermons to millions. Volunteer workers had distributed millions of free tracks.
Coal porters were zealously preaching pilgrims were busy organizing congregations.
And a message was expanding globally.
But with the end of the Gentile times approaching so quickly,
how could so few Bible students reach an entire world?
How could they quicken the pace?
It is unanimously resolved to use moving pictures and teaching Bible truths.
The Lord sanctioned this in His use of word pictures so this should not be neglected.
The Watchtower, July 1, 1913.
With that resolution, the Bible students were galvanized to present the photo drama of creation.
But such a mammoth undertaking would not come without challenges.
Some of the young brothers learned to operate the projection machine by volunteering at the local theaters.
Being too young, I used to sit in the booth with the brother.
I can remember how exciting it was when a film caught fire.
How the brother had to act quickly to put it out and proceed with the performance.
Dwight Kenyon.
It was excellent. It was very amazing.
You had individual back in those days that were able to do that without modern instrument and it was very impressive.
That's really what helped my father to come into the truth.
They got to the meeting the next day after it was finished and eventually started studying and within a few months they were baptized.
And my mom told me that she was one of the usherettes when they put on the photo drama there in their town in Texas.
But they had little pictures, postcard size of the pictures that were used, the slides.
And it was a joy to look at those from time to time when I was a kid.
Nine million people saw the photo drama during his first year.
A precious message they would not soon forget.
And there was more to come.
From every part of the field has come the cry saying,
what more is there that we can do?
The result is a new magazine under the title, The Golden Age.
Joseph F. Rutherford.
After that announcement, brother Rutherford asked of everyone there,
how many desire to do this work?
Six thousand Bible students stood up as one.
And over the next decade, the thousands who would participate in that harvest work
would use many creative methods to reach more people faster.
Among them was a book, The Heart of God.
People were encouraged to get the harp study course by mail.
Then, when I went to the home of our service director,
his wife and I ran speed races typing addresses on these cards.
We sent out hundreds each week.
Trudeau McKittrick.
Soon another technique would come to the fore.
The radio station WBBR.
The studio for this new radio broadcasting station was located in the attic.
The microphone that we used at the beginning was taken from an ordinary telephone.
Finally, after some weeks of preparations, we were ready for the first broadcast.
That occurred on Sunday evening, February 24th, 1924.
The call letters were WBBR.
These call letters, our enemies, said, met wicked buzzes by radio.
It was my privilege to throw the power switch on for that first broadcast
and a way we went, hoping for the best.
Ralph Leffler.
The peoples of this earth are now numbered with a thousand of millions.
WBBR, in many respects, was a forerunner to the videos.
Because we had Bible questions answered there.
We had public meetings. We had book studies.
We had news.
The first piece of equipment that someone got when they came into the truth
was a really good radio.
So they could hear WBBR.
And that's like I mentioned earlier how my parents first heard the truth.
Was a radio discourse that a brother gave a talk on where they did.
I had the privilege of times of giving talks on the WBBR.
A young minister speaks. I gave that once or twice.
I was encouraged to take part in one of their Bible study groups.
I was privileged to be on it.
It was a program that was designed as a family Bible study.
But even before that, quite a number of years ago,
Fred Franz was on WBBR.
Imagine him on the air and youngsters listening to him.
Good evening, boys and girls.
I know it's drawing close to bedtime for many of you.
But before you take yourselves to bed, I want to tell you a story.
I had never imagined I'd ever be on a radio program of any kind.
And here I was presenting the truth as a part of a program.
So it was a real joy to be on WBBR.
The success of WBBR was met with increased opposition.
So other methods were used to keep spreading the kingdom message.
When I was little, we never had an automobile in our home.
But these sound cars, big, beautiful cars.
But these big horns on top.
And when they broadcasted first music, everybody came out to listen.
And every weekend, some of the, what we were called today,
elders would bring the sound car in and station it in our yard.
And from there, they would play the records for the neighborhood.
Every weekend, we had a large group of people listening
because of their location they could stay and listen.
And there was quite a gathering during that time.
Another time I set up and started one of Brother Rutherford's lectures
telling about the second coming of Christ.
A few days afterward, a person told me that his fellow moonshiner
was set up in the woods making a run of moonshine.
When all of a sudden, here came a voice from above.
He got excited and went to run it.
But he could not get away from the sound.
He finally ran home to get his axe and went back up there
and chopped up his still.
He said he did not want the Lord to catch him making moonshine
at his coming.
See him personally.
We would come up on a porch, open our case,
set the arm and position on the record,
and push the doorbell.
When the householder opened the door, we would say,
I have an important message I would like you to hear,
and we would start the record.
It is often said that he would...
When I was pioneering, I used a phonograph all the time.
I liked the phonograph.
This is an upright phonograph.
We had the type that opened up and you could balance it on your hip
if you were strong enough or you set it down on the porch
and the message would be heard way down the street.
And I always enjoyed hearing when I put the record on
Brother Rutherford saying,
religion is a snare and a racket.
And I'd look at the expression on the face of the people,
whether they were happy or not.
And I remember they told us,
now, to help the householder concentrate on the message,
it would be good if you would watch the record.
So we were told to watch the record go round and round and round.
Of course, we would get a little bit dizzy.
Many times you would knock on the door and set it up
to the doorstep center.
The party didn't even know what was going on.
You started playing the record.
The only thing he has with a phonograph,
you always had to make sure you had the right record on.
Sometimes you would use that phonograph at home
and you'd play some hillbilly records.
I took mom's phonograph
and I put on my fast-water playing
Boogie Wiggy in the St. Louis Blues.
And so if you got out in service
and you happen to have a record that was still on there.
So she goes out in the service with a phonograph.
It's up to let I have an important message.
And here's fast-water playing Boogie Wiggy.
Some witnesses even nicknamed the phonograph Aaron
because it did the talking for us.
But that wasn't the only method that was used.
We also used a testimony card.
This little card would have a nice little presentation on.
It was scripture two and you'd show that the householder.
And usually they'd only read a few lines
and then they'd hand it back to you
so you'd have to finish the conversation.
You'd give it to them to read and then it turned it over.
So sometimes we had to start giving it to them on the wrong side
so they would turn it to read it on the right side.
So funny.
I could just tell him why I'm there.
So what I did.
And to me it was a little easier.
Some people were a little short on funds
and so we would offer to trade.
So many times out in the country
they would trade you for maybe a dozen eggs
for three or four booklets or something like that.
Or if it was a book you might end up with a chicken or two.
So when you went out and field service in the country
you had to be prepared to pick up many different things.
Usually probably bagged the chicken up
so he was in a bag back in the trunk.
Got a little warm for the poor thing
but they survived it and bring him home.
And then after we got the chicken out
and let him recover
why we'd have a nice chicken dinner.
So back in those days we ate a lot of chicken.
In addition,
plackers and information marches
had also come on the scene.
And brother Rutherford of course was a shorthand expert.
And whenever you talk to him
he'd always be busy writing.
He wouldn't know what he'd be writing about.
So he's doing that this day.
He ripped it off and he gave it to me.
He said, what do you think of it?
And it said religions are staring their racket.
So I said, my,
that's pretty strong.
As a matter of fact I said, that's hot.
Well, he said, that's what I meant it to be.
So now he said, don't you think it's a good idea?
Now we're going to have a big information march
two days from now.
Couldn't brother play in the printing,
make up some signs, religions are staring their racket.
Put them on poles and we'll have them for the parade.
And brother Nora was also in London at that time.
So he and I led this parade.
This parade was six miles long.
A thousand brothers showed up for the parade.
It really was a spectacle.
Every second sign would be religion is staring their racket.
And the Bobby's, the police gave us protection
as we went down to Piccadilly Circus, Oxford Street,
right in the center of London.
We'd put on these sandwich signs, you know,
that had some kind of a message and slogans on it.
And they'd give us a little sign that we carried, you know, on a stick.
We had, religion is a snare in the racket.
Then you had to put on the other side.
And he said, boy, that's pretty strong.
And on the other side, it's so God and Christ the King.
And we walked very slowly down the street
and then back the other way in an area.
And we would approach people with a hand-bill
and everybody took them and they were looking at the placard.
They would try to not let you think they were looking at you,
but they were, they were reading all of the information on the placard.
Some people would say something to the effect
that you're doing a good work.
And that was always a blessing to me.
I know I should remember the sister who looked up at the sign
that she was carrying.
She looked back up over her head.
She said, serve God and Christ the King.
And she looked at the one in front of her.
And the back of that sign said, religion is a snare in the racket.
She said, well, I'm sure glad I don't have to carry that sign.
Well, she was carrying that sign.
It was in the back of her.
But in a way, she didn't know us, so she was happy.
They had adult-sized placards and they had little fellow placards.
Well, I was only about four feet tall.
But whenever I got dirty, the little ones were gone.
So I only got a big one.
It came underneath here.
And every time I took a step, I kicked it with my feet.
But it didn't make any difference.
We enjoyed working with placards.
Nobody ever trained me in the ministry.
So one day I was at the meeting and the brother passed out.
The publisher's cards.
And I said, where's mine?
He said, well, you don't get one.
You're not a publisher.
And I said, well, what's that?
And he said, you got to go preaching.
I said, how do you do that?
He said, well, come on Saturday.
And go over there and get magazines.
And then I went out and they pointed me out a door.
I was scared, but I just went anyway.
I didn't care.
My first experience in field service was really cute.
I knocked on the door and they said, hello.
I've got something for you.
And you can have it for a penny.
Or you can have it free if you promise to read it.
I placed one in every door.
One morning I was taking a group out in the field ministry.
And a Navy man shows up at the Kingdom Hall.
He's got his uniform on.
And I didn't know what to do.
So I took him door to door with me.
And it was really very interesting.
I thought it was pretty neat me going to door to door
with the guy in the military standing next to me.
And I'm given my presentations.
And he's got a Bible.
We're following along with me.
Of course, later on, I learned really
it's not the most appropriate thing to take
someone in military uniform on the ministry with you.
But at that time, I did it.
So my father and December said, well, he's going to go out in service.
So I got ready and went with him.
Now, neither one of us has ever been out in service before.
The presiding overseer handed my father a territory
and sent the two of us out together.
My father said, do you take that side?
And I'll take this side.
And that's what it was like.
And of course, I was no more prepared than a man and a moon.
We had pioneers come to our house and they studied with us.
And she decided to get us started in the ministry.
We would begin with street work.
But I said, no, I said, I don't want to do that.
And she said, well, that's too bad.
She said, because I can see the book of life now.
There's the names of your sisters written there.
No more rain.
As I got older, there was a pioneer brother
and the congregation that asked if I'd like to go with him
to work with him.
He carried a rifle on the back of his car,
which I thought was kind of unusual.
So we'd see a rabbit.
He'd stop the car and shoot the rabbit.
Put it in the car.
As it got toward the end of the day,
we'd ask him, did they know of any place
where we could stay overnight?
Because we were out in the ministry.
And the people and two different answers I recall.
They said, well, you can stay with us.
One of them said, well, we don't have enough food for supper.
And the brother said, well, I have a couple of rabbits here,
if you want to scan them.
I don't think that this would work now.
And carrying a rifle on the car certainly is not advice.
It gradually became clear that the individual minister
needed further cultivation.
So the brother started perhaps the only school
from which not one single solitary person
has ever graduated.
The Theocratic ministry school.
I recall the time I gave my first six-minute talk.
I was not confident in myself, so I wrote it down.
But when I got up to give it,
audience fear gripped me and I started,
then it mattered, losing my thoughts.
Then I resorted to reading from the manuscript.
But my hands were trembling so much
that the lines were jumping up and down.
George Ganges.
Well, I remember when the ministry school thought of it,
you know, and I remember the brother he gave
a first talk and he was so nervous he was kicking the podium
all the time.
Boom, boom, boom.
I didn't know he was doing it.
I was sure as my heart could be heard for the first four rows,
because it was beating so hard.
Back then, the sisters didn't give talks.
The brothers gave the talks.
The sisters didn't we just laughed and giggled at the brothers.
You know, we were all very, very excited as sisters
when we were invited to be part of the school.
And I remember we were just, I was just so excited.
I jumped up and was clapping.
The sisters behind me were crying.
I have to give talks now.
Oh, they didn't like it.
I couldn't figure out why they were crying.
But we were in West Virginia in a little tiny congregation.
And guess who it was to give the first talk?
It was me, of course.
So I was scared to death.
But we did it.
I think everybody was quite nervous and apprehensive
in the very beginning.
So it's really quite a marvelous training program.
It's besides just not just public speaking.
It's training in life.
This school would prove invaluable in training God's people
to use their gift to speech and proclaiming the Kingdom Good News.
But at the same time, another school
was also having a powerful effect on the ministry.
They watched our Bible College of Gilead.
That was five and a half months of some of the happiest in my life.
It seemed like everybody else was a mental theocratic giant.
So we were intimidated.
I guess I should speak for myself mainly.
I felt intimidated there.
And I thought that everybody else probably knew a lot more than I did.
The classes were a delight.
Our instructors were brothers Schroeder,
brother Maxwell Friend, Jack Redford, and Bob Porter.
Well, I'll tell you a story from brother friend.
After I gave one of my talks in Gilead,
he said to me, Sister Brooks, I admire your grandchildren.
He said, you will be able to tell them such wonderful bedtime stories.
He said, brothers, Hebrews 412 says God's word is alive.
He said, don't kill it by the way you read it.
I think one thing was the little white house
and the kingdom in our preaching classes with brother Redford.
I'm telling you that little white house
that had a doorbell and a door.
And you would get sent out on the class of a decide,
what objection you were going to get.
You come back in, I'm telling you to push that doorbell,
not knowing what was going to happen behind that door
and to see how you handled it.
It was real, real, real, formation, believe me.
It prepared us really for the ministry and what was ahead of us.
It was wonderful training for the ministry.
I loved it.
The next several decades would see more new schools
and training programs.
But it would also witness monumental conventions
and groundbreaking new releases.
More tools to help God's people stay focused on the heartless.
1950, I don't think there's ever been a convention
that had that kind of almost electricity in the air.
Everybody is excited.
They're looking forward to the public talk
and the releases.
Everybody wants to get the new publications.
It was eight days that convention.
I'm not sure that people could endure that much these days.
Well, I was so happy that we were having the convention
because the people used to think we were just some little
dinky religion, you know.
And I knew when thearchy stayed,
it was going to straighten them out.
But when that new world translation in Greek scriptures
was released, it really brought the house down.
Everybody expressed themselves.
And they clapped and they was cheering and clapping.
And everybody needed to sit until after the session
before they got their new books.
To have the new world translation,
even though it was the Green Bible,
was just such a wonderful tool for us in the ministry.
It was exciting then just like it is now.
Every time you get something new,
and of course you appreciate it more as you use it.
Another thing I loved about those conventions,
they had a live orchestra.
And singing with a live orchestra was already exciting.
But boy, when you would sit in those stadiums
and see all your brothers and sisters,
it just was so heartwarming and made me feel safe
inside Jehovah's organization.
And it was just wonderful.
Every time you went to the convention,
it was something thrilling.
And when it ended, we didn't want it to end.
This period of expanded activity would result in publishers,
pioneers, Bible studies,
return visits, placements,
and all aspects of the ministry reaching record eyes.
The work was growing in more countries than ever.
But most importantly, the good news of the kingdom
was being preached.
But as has often been the case,
there was much more to come.
Just think of some of the events that you have witnessed
in recent decades.
The Pioneer Service School,
the Ministerial Training School,
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
Special Metropolitan Public Witnessing,
a newly designed JW.org,
Caleb, and the Become Jehovah's Friend Series,
the revised New World Translation.
And now, a new language app to further train publishers
to learn to speak the pure language in multiple languages.
Video on Demand,
an entirely new website,
where people can watch morning worship
and other video publications.
And finally, a return to Broadcasting,
our own TV station,
JW Broadcasting,
taking the Bible's message from world headquarters
to the farthest reaches of the planet.
Imagine what we will look back on
to the one thousandth or one millionth anniversary
of Kingdom Rule.
The past one or two years helps us to appreciate
that God's kingdom is real
and that Jehovah God has been using that kingdom
to accomplish His will on earth today.
But how real is that kingdom to you?
Looking back on our heritage,
and speaking to those with years of experience,
will make the kingdom more real to you
and will prepare you to benefit from that kingdom.
The governing body
have been anxious to give whatever they can
for the building of the brothers
and teaching them to walk the upright world.
Oh, I think the revised New World translation is a marvel.
The word love isn't big enough to say
how much I love that Bible.
J.W. Orange is fantastic.
I'm in my iPad all the time.
And then, using videos,
I'm in love with Caleb.
He's keeping abreast with what we need
to be efficient ministers
and to fulfill our responsibilities.
Everything at the society has done.
It's been parrard to it.
We're growing faster today
than we ever have.
Jehovah really moving the chariot
and we're trying to keep up with it.
And I've been very grateful
for having Jesus' brothers
to take the lead for us.
There is no question
about the kingdom being in control.
What else can be more real than the kingdom?
And the hope at all.
I just feel privileged
to have some share
in inviting others
to join us as servants of Jehovah God.
If the sun comes up,
we know that the kingdom is going to accomplish
just what the Bible says that it is.
This is the reality.
God's kingdom.
Everything else is an illusion.
The kingdom is in control.
We only have good things to look forward to.
Now that was truly heartwarming.
And I think it gives us an opportunity
to think about just how much we love
and respect all of the ones
who went before us
who gave their whole lives
to the preaching work
into advancing kingdom interests.
How appropriate that we remember them today.
Well now,
another important aspect
of our worship
throughout these 100 years
has been music.
And how appropriate that we are giving attention
to music here
at this 100th anniversary annual meeting.
So let's give our full attention now
to further David's plane
of the governing body
and see what he has prepared for us.
Well, I'm sure that there is no one in this audience
who is not aware
that last Monday evening,
the Bethel family learned three new songs
that we are going to sing today.
They were outstanding.
And it really made me think of
something that we read in the book of Exodus,
chapter 15.
Let's turn there.
And let's see if you can pick out the connection
between what happened last Monday evening
and Exodus chapter 15 and verse 1.
Exodus 15 and verse 1.
It says, at that time,
Moses and the Israelites
sang this song to Jehovah.
Let me sing to Jehovah
for he has become highly exalted.
The horse and its rider
he has hurled into the sea.
Now, there's no indication
that Moses had advanced notice
that Jehovah was going to drown
the Egyptians in the Red Sea.
It isn't as if three months before the event,
Moses was able to hand out sheet music
to all of the Israelites
and said, here's a nice song.
Why don't you practice it?
And when the time comes,
we'll all be able to sing it.
They probably had to learn it
and sing it right on the spot.
And that's what happened last Monday night.
And that, dear friends,
is what's going to happen today.
So what we're doing today
is by no means unique.
Now, of course, the question has arisen.
I have been asked a number of times.
What are we going to do
with the three new songs
after the annual meeting?
Well, I have been evasive,
but I can tell you now,
those three new songs,
along with about a dozen other new songs,
are going to be incorporated
into a revised songbook that is not ready yet.
But when it is ready,
it's going to look a lot like this.
Guilt edges and all.
When the printer office
explained to the governing body
what the cost difference would be
between this lovely songbook
and the one with the paper cover,
the governing body said,
thank you very much for the information
we want the gray one.
And this shows the value
that the governing body places on our songs.
But now you might ask,
why was it necessary
to revise the songbook?
Three words.
New World Translation.
Many of the expressions
that are in our current songbook
are based on the earlier edition
of the New World Translation.
They've been revised.
If you were listening carefully
to the musical presentation
before the session today,
you probably noticed
some word changes already.
We don't say desirable things
of all nations are joining us
in all the earth,
but those precious to God
from all nations are joining us
in all the earth.
Loving kindness has been replaced
by loyal love.
That's a toughy for some Bethelites.
I hear loving kindness quite a bit still.
We'll get over it.
And then finally,
long suffering has been replaced
by patience.
And so because of the word changes,
the governing body said,
well, they're going to have to work on the lyrics,
so why not add a few new songs
so the brothers will be able to sing?
Well, when are we going to get the new songbook?
It's going to be a while.
We don't know exactly when.
The songs have been approved
or even composed at this point,
but you won't have to wait
for the new songbook
in order to sing the songs,
because a number of new songs
are going to be posted on our website,
one at a time,
and when a new song is released,
it is going to be scheduled
to be sung at the end of a service meeting.
I believe that's beginning the week
of January the 5th.
So we're going to get a chance
to sing those new songs.
Now, of course, we know
that not everyone has a computer,
not everyone has access to one,
not everyone knows how to download a song
and the lyrics,
so it means that those
who do know how to do this
will have to be thinking
of their brothers and sisters,
because everyone is going to want
to be able to prepare
and participate in the meetings.
Well, now, for the benefit
of those of you who weren't present
on Monday night,
we are going to take the first song
on your sheet,
song A,
and this one was specially composed
to mark the 100th anniversary
of the establishment of the Kingdom.
It's entitled,
The Kingdom is in place,
let it come.
And the way we're going to do it,
we're going to demonstrate
the entire song first,
and then we're going to demonstrate
portions of the song,
and we will give you a chance
to practice that portion of the song
until we've done one verse completely,
and at the end we'll have you all rise,
and we will sing both verses
of the Kingdom is in place,
let it come.
We're expecting great things this morning.
You'll thank me later.
The Watchtower chorus,
the entire Watchtower chorus,
is here to help us.
You can do that.
It'll be fun.
Now, you'll notice on top of each bar,
there is a number,
one, two, three, four.
Those are the numbers of the measures
and so from time to time,
we're going to be referring to them.
Now, in this segment, we'll do song A.
Later on, our regular choral conductor,
Brother Carlo Capano,
is going to be working with us
on the other two songs.
So right now,
what we're going to do is practice
bars one through eight.
The chorus will demonstrate,
and then you are going to be able to participate.
So this is bars one through eight.
So each time we'll get a cue from the piano,
I will count one, two, three,
and then we sing.
Listen to the chorus first.
Now it's your turn.
So we'll give you the cue,
and then I will count one, two, three,
and then a mighty roar of praise
is going to go up from this room.
Two, three.
We didn't get this song three months ago.
That's wonderful.
Now we'll go on to measures nine through 12.
The chorus will demonstrate,
and then we will reciprocate to 20.
We're going to demonstrate one complete verse,
one complete verse only,
but then we will have you stand,
and you will sing the entire song,
both verses.
Now the reason for this is because we want you to get
to know the introduction,
how we fit the introduction in with the beginning of the song.
So they will do the one complete verse.
Official song that we're using as an interlude
in the annual meeting part.
So please rise,
and we will sing the entire song from beginning to end.
And you are doing a magnificent job.
Maybe seated.
Arveless way, that was to mark this 100th anniversary,
a song written especially for the occasion.
Well, I think we'll all be happy to say to all the ages
to come that we were present the first time it was sung.
But now, brothers and sisters, as you well know,
those of you who regularly have attended the annual meeting,
in interviews,
have always been a highlight of our annual meeting program.
And so now we're looking forward to hearing
Brother Garrett Loach of the governing body,
interview six long-time Bethel family members.
Please give it your attention.
It's a privilege now to interview three couples
at Bethel, long-timers,
namely Don and Nancy Commerce,
Elsie and Rita Cotton,
and Ray and Martha Rambo.
And we would like you to introduce yourselves,
and maybe we can start with you, Brother Commerce.
I was born in 1941 and grew up in Washington State
in a family of witnesses.
I was baptized in 1949.
In 1954, our family decided to serve where the need was great.
In 1956, it became my turn to join the Pioneer ranks.
And from that time forward, for many, many years,
we did serve in various places throughout the United States,
even including Peru, South America.
I was invited to Bethel,
and enjoyed serving here for over four years,
but then decided to marry and leave Bethel.
We were assigned then in the special Pioneer work
to the South.
And in 1970, we were invited into the circuit work.
In 1979, I was invited back to Bethel, sort of recycled,
and I've been serving here for the last 35 years
in various departments.
Currently, I work in the healthcare support department
that takes care of the medical needs
of the traveling overseers and special pioneers.
Thank you.
And, Sister Commerce, what can you add from your angle?
My mother and I were the first ones to be baptized.
We were baptized in Providence, Rhode Island in 1959.
I started to pioneer in 1965 in Hartford, Connecticut.
Don and I met at a circuit assembly in the Bronx,
and about a year and a half later, we were married.
And that's one of my exciting life
of special full-time service and travel began.
We specialed for several years,
and then we were invited into the circuit work.
And then in 1979, we were invited to Bethel in Brooklyn,
and we've been in Brooklyn the whole time.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Cotton.
Maybe here from you, how you got the truth,
how you started pioneering and so on.
I was baptized in February 29, 1964.
I started to pioneer October 1, 1966.
And since I wanted to come to Bethel,
I had to secure a 4D classification
from the local draft board.
In the appeal that I made to the draft board,
a number of members of the draft board said
I was simply too young to be classified
as a minister.
A reason privately that I am too young to be considered a minister,
but I'm not too young to fight in the Vietnam War.
I later learned that the FBI investigated me.
They must have been convinced that I was a minister
because I received a 4D classification,
and then I was able to finally apply for Bethel's service.
I received an invitation to Bethel's service signed
by Brother Nathan Nor in May of 1968.
And then in 1972, a left Bethel got married.
And then Rita and I, we served in a small town in Matta, Georgia.
And then we received an invitation to come back to Bethel in 1978,
this summer of that year.
For the last 17 years, I've worked in hospital information services.
Thank you.
Sister Cotton, what can you tell us about yourself?
In 1960, I was baptized at a district convention
in Kansas City, Missouri, along with two of my brothers.
So in 1969, I began my career as a regular pioneer
against the advice of my teachers and school counselors
who wanted me not only to go to college,
but to pursue a career in track and field.
And a few years later, LC and I were married
and regular pioneer for a few years together.
We received our invitation in a letter dated May 31, 1978,
and to come and be part of the Bethel family here in Brooklyn.
I was assigned to the shipping department,
which later divided and formed the transportation department.
And that is where I'm presently working.
Thank you very much.
Well, for the Rambo, I hear that you had an interesting way
of being contacted with the truth.
Could you tell us more about it?
I got a barbering cosmology license.
I opened up a beauty studio.
In 1956, I was cutting a lady's hair,
and she showed me Jehovah's name in the Bible.
And then she and her husband began calling on me
and showed me that Jehovah and Jesus were not the same person.
There was no Trinity.
The soul wasn't immortal, that the soul dies.
So I began to understand what the Bible really said.
So then in 1957, I got baptized.
1958, I started pioneering.
And I've been in the full-time service for the past 56 years.
I was pioneering, we went to circuit work and hered Bethel.
So those 56 years were the best years I could have ever spent.
Thank you very much.
And Sister Rambo, I understand you have an interesting story
to tell as well.
Well, I don't know how interesting,
but my dad got the truth in about 1938.
And I was around two years old.
So I learned the truth from him.
He said on his lap, and he would tell me about the new world
and about the animals.
And I really even, in those young years,
I accepted that this was right and that this was the truth.
I only got to a kingdom hall when we moved to Duwajak, Michigan.
But by that time, my dad was pretty sick.
And the first meeting that I actually attended was his funeral.
But after that, I continued to go to the meetings.
And I was baptized at age 17, 1953.
And then I started to pioneer in 1956.
So I've been in full-time service for 58 years, like, for their comers.
Well, thank you very much for your comments.
As we all know, not only in the world are changes happening,
also within Jehovah's organization.
And sometimes these changes seem to happen quickly, rapidly.
So we would like you to tell us how the changes within the organization
have affected you and how you feel about them.
But before we invite you to comment on this,
just one reference to Isaiah 67 that came to my mind
is that it was even prophesied in the Bible
that there would be organizational adjustments, improvements.
And it says in verse 17, instead of the copper,
I will bring in gold.
And instead of the iron, I will bring in silver.
Instead of the wood, copper, and instead of the stones, iron.
So we see that this finds fulfillment now.
And so please tell us how you feel about the changes
that are happening within the organization.
Let's start with brother commerce again.
There's always been a focus, and that has been to advertise the kingdom.
And many different ways have been utilized to accomplish that.
Right now we're using carts and tables.
And the witnessing is very effective using these two means.
It seems no matter where you go in the world, you can find them.
If you go high up into the Andes Mountains,
the markets have them there.
If you go to seaports, they're there.
I've seen them in Macau, I've seen them in Hong Kong,
I've seen them in the Roman Forum, in Naples.
No matter where you go, these carts are out there.
And it's an amazing thing to see.
And that's coupled with the JW.org.
Here's an opportunity for people no matter where they live
to have contact with Jehovah's word and his people.
Certainly it's beyond our expectations.
I just saw the figures, now there are 550 languages
that you can look at that site in.
And from the site you can download over 700 languages.
So really this website is going where we cannot.
Spiritual food flows to them.
And it's carefully designed and presented
so that it's done in an appealing way.
What's known about the results?
That's very interesting.
In the first some of the days in August,
1.5 million visits were made on a daily basis to that site.
They now have videos, one video in particular.
Why study the Bible is available in 520 different languages.
It's just an amazing thing to watch.
How does it relate to Bible study activity?
Well, in the first two years, 100,000 requests have been made
for Bible studies over JW.org.
Well, that's fantastic, isn't it?
Wonderful change to have the website now.
Well, Sister Cromers, may we hear from you?
And how you feel about some of the changes?
Well, I've been thrilled to see the arrangements that have been made
by the faithful and discreet slave.
For example, in October last year,
we were delighted to receive the revised version
of the New World translation.
How easy it is to read.
And for my personal studying, I really enjoy it.
Two, we have the simplified watch tower.
And we've seen amazing results from that.
Don already referred to the website.
I'm excited at introducing it to people,
because I know it's been designed to appeal to the Internet user.
They want their material crisp and clear.
And they want it appealing.
So that's what we've endeavour to do.
I've also enjoyed the videos.
So in August, I showed the video to a young man.
I showed the video why study the Bible.
And he was very quiet.
And at the end, he paused.
And he just looked at me and said,
I get it.
Well, I don't know where that'll go.
But all of these wonderful arrangements have been a blessing from Jehovah
that he's provided through the governing body.
Thank you very much.
Well, next we'll hear from Brother Carton.
And what can you tell us about your feelings,
about the certain changes in the organization?
Brother Loach, for me, there have been so many beneficial changes
in Jehovah's organization since I have been in the truth.
All of the assembly programs are posted online for us to download.
And during a session of family worship,
we're able to review the scriptures, meditate on the scriptures.
And then when the brother actually gives the talk of the assembly,
we can anticipate what he's going to say.
We can follow along.
And this has had a beneficial effect on me,
as far as understanding the points clearly having them in mind,
and the application to us as servants of Jehovah.
To me, it is so clear that the governing body wants us to have a good relationship with Jehovah.
And they want us to live, and they love us.
And all of these provisions are an indication of that kind of thing.
Well, thank you, and Sister Carton.
How do you feel about the changes, recent changes?
Well, I was thinking about the changes in connection with our meetings
in particular, the congregation book study.
When it was combined to be held on the same evening
as at theocratic school and service meeting, it was a big change.
But I found personally that I benefited from the change that has been made with the book study,
because we have one more evening a week to study as individuals or in family worship.
And it all shows me that the governing body really loves the worldwide brotherhood,
and that they really want us to be spiritually strong.
Thank you very much.
Now, let's switch to Sister Rambo.
There's certain things and changes that happened in the organization that enthused you, too.
So tell us about it.
I appreciate the new arrangement of having 30 hours as an auxiliary pioneer.
So we could either do 30 or 50.
I understand that you're taking advantage of this from time to time.
Yes, and I've really enjoyed it.
I've done it twice this year so far.
Recently, we had an announcement at the Bethel table in connection with an arrangement for Bethelites,
and that's new. Can you tell us about this?
Yes. Now, Bethelites have the opportunity to go to Pioneer School.
And I'm really excited about that, because for me, I've never been before,
since they didn't have Pioneer School when I was pioneering.
Well, thank you very much.
Brother Rambo, you have been over the years working a lot with a design office,
and that has to do with buildings.
Would you be able to tell us about what impressed you?
Many things have happened just here in Brooklyn.
For example, in 1975, we purchased a tower's hotel.
We still have that.
In the early 80s, the 25 Columbia Heights building was renovated,
and now there's offices all through that building.
And in 1983, we purchased the 360 Ferman Complex,
which is a huge complex of buildings.
And then in 1986, they purchased a land area for the 90 sands building
that they built in 1995.
So just here in Brooklyn, we've seen many things take place.
But even more important, the announcement we heard in 2013 that in Warwick, New York,
they gave the approval, the town gave the approval that we would build.
The World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses in that Warwick area.
So we're looking forward to the future.
What Jehovah has in store for the changes we've been taking place.
And that will be a big change to move to the New World Headquarters.
Maybe we can have another one or two commons in conclusion from
rather commons and rather cotton about the same point about the changes.
And who to attribute it to?
It's hard to know how to describe all the changes.
There could be many, many expressions made.
But from my standpoint, I think what the Psalmist said says it all.
In Psalm 118, verse 23, this has come from Jehovah.
It's wonderful in our eyes.
And brother cotton?
And I feel the same way brother Loes, that the most powerful force in all the universe,
operating on the instrument that Jehovah God is clearly using in this time of the end.
And he has moved the coming body to make all of these beneficial changes.
And to me, it is as Matthew chapter 21, verse 42 says,
it is from Jehovah and it is wonderful for us to see.
Well, thank you very much for your comments.
Well, what can we all learn from it?
Whether we are serving at Bethel or outside Bethel.
Well, we can see that Jehovah's spirit is moving things and that there are rapid changes.
So for us, the question is, are we keeping up with the pace of Jehovah's forward moving organization?
And to the end, that it all serves to glorify Jehovah.
Well, we sincerely thank you, brother Loes, and all those that you interviewed today,
we were very moved by their fine expressions.
So now we have the privilege to hear four scriptural talks by members of the governing body.
So we encourage you now to take out your notebooks,
because you are one to benefit fully from these historic discourses that we are about to hear.
To begin, brother David's plane of the governing body will speak to us on the theme,
types and anti-types.
Let's get right into our subject, types and anti-types.
Now, years ago, our publications often applied certain Bible accounts
and certain Bible characters as types of something greater.
But you've noticed that in recent years, that has seldom done.
And the purpose of this talk is to explain why.
First of all, what is a type and what is an anti-type?
Well, a much tower of September 15, 1950 defined them this way.
It said, a type is a representation of something that will come to pass at a future time.
The anti-type is the reality of the thing which the type represents.
So that was the definition that was given by the watch tower.
And we might add that Jehovah is usually involved in designing the type.
Well, I'll take the tabernacle.
Jehovah was very clear about the construction of the tabernacle,
what materials were to be used, the dimensions and so forth.
Why?
Well, apparently because he had designed the tabernacle to be a type of something greater.
His great spiritual temple.
And the temple is the anti-type.
The sacrifices on the day of atonement.
Jehovah was very careful about how events on the day of atonement were to unfold.
And again, he realized that something was going to have to picture or foreshadow the perfect sacrifice of Jesus Christ.
So the sacrifices on the day of atonement, the type, the sacrifice, the perfect sacrifice of Christ, the anti-type.
Now consider another example.
When the disobedient Israelites in the wilderness are bitten by poisonous snakes,
Moses is told by Jehovah to fashion a copper serpent and to place that serpent on a pole.
Now that was a type.
And Jesus explained what it was a type of.
Let's turn to John chapter 3, John chapter 3, and verses 14 and 15.
John 3, 14 and 15.
If you're using an iPad, I'll give you a chance to catch up.
I couldn't resist.
And just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so the son of man must be lifted up.
So that everyone believing in him may have everlasting life.
Well, would anyone doubt that this is a type?
Of course not.
Because Jesus said it was.
Well, notice that in both these examples, the tabernacle and the copper serpent, Jehovah was involved.
He designed the type so that it would fit the anti-type.
He told Moses, for example, to fashion a copper serpent and to put it not on a rock, but on a stake.
And of course the tabernacle prefiguring the great spiritual temple.
From the Apostle Paul, we learned a lot about types and anti-types.
For example, Paul explains in his letter to the Hebrews that Isaiah and his two sons represent Jesus and the anointed.
He also explains that Moses, the mediator of the law covenant, represents Christ, the mediator of the new covenant.
And we learned from the letter to the Galatians that Abraham's relationship with Sarah and Higar represents Jehovah's relationship with the earthly nation of Israel and with the heavenly part of his organization.
Type, anti-type.
Now we know that these are genuine types because the word of God says they are.
But here is the question.
Who is to decide if a person or an event is a type, if the word of God doesn't say anything about it?
Who is qualified to do that?
Our answer?
We can do no better than to quote our beloved brother, Albert Schroeder, who said,
we need to exercise great care when applying accounts in the Hebrew scriptures as prophetic patterns or types.
If these accounts are not applied in the scriptures themselves, it wasn't that a beautiful statement.
We agree with it.
Now the study of types and anti-types is not unique to Jehovah's witnesses.
During the past 2,000 years, Catholic and Jewish scholars have made quite a diligent study of types and anti-types.
In fact, there's even a name for this study. They call it typology.
The first century Jewish scholar, Philo of Alexandria, for example, suggested that the serpent in the garden of Eden, the tree of knowledge, and the cherubs that were guarding the entrance to the garden were all typical of something greater.
And then describing the teachings of such early writers as origin, Ambrose and Jerome, the international standard Bible encyclopedia says this.
They sought for types, and of course found them.
In every incident and event, however trivial recorded in Scripture, even the most simple and commonplace circumstance was thought to conceal within itself a hidden truth.
Even in the number of fish caught by the disciples on the night the risen Savior appeared to them.
He says, how much some have tried to make of that number 153?
One scholar made much of Jacob's purchase of Esau's birthright with a bowl of red stew, very significant that the stew was red.
To him, the red stew pictured the red blood of Christ.
The inheritance pictured the heavenly inheritance.
And so, by that reasoning, Jacob pictures Jesus, Esau's birthright pictures the heavenly inheritance and the red stew pictures Jesus precious blood.
Now in the surface, that might sound plausible to some until you think about it.
When you think about it, you find at least three problems.
First of all, Jehovah didn't design the type.
Jehovah did not tell Esau to sell his birthright.
Selling his birthright was wrong, and Jehovah never tells us to do something that's wrong.
Second, who ate the stew? Esau did.
So, are we to conclude that by giving up his inheritance, Esau put himself in line for the ransom sacrifice of Jesus Christ?
That doesn't make any sense.
And most importantly, nowhere in scripture do we read that the event is a type.
Now the study of types and anti-types was not only common among Catholic and Jewish scholars, but it was very popular among Protestants scholars as well.
The Puritans, like Edward Taylor, applied many Bible events to themselves.
The Baptists and Congregationalists did likewise.
So, it's not surprising that the early Bible students who had generally belonged to these groups were also very fond of types.
And so, have many of us been.
Many of us remember happy moments at the Congregation Book Study, studying all about types and anti-types.
And it's true that the study of types could be thrilling.
So now here's a question.
If the study of a certain subject makes chills run up and down your spine, could it possibly be mistaken?
And the answer is yes.
The case of Brother Arch W. Smith is an example.
In 1886, Brother Russell published a book that contained a chart linking the ages of mankind to the great pyramid of Egypt.
Now that pyramid was called by the Bible students, the Bible in stone.
They loved the study of the pyramid.
In fact, if you have seen pictures of Brother Russell's grave, you have noticed that there was a pyramid nearby.
And that's because the Bible students believed very much in the great pyramid of Egypt.
And some became very engrossed in measuring certain rooms and certain features of the pyramid to try to determine, for example, how long they had to wait before they went to heaven and so on.
And so one who was just thrilled by the study of types was Brother Arch W. Smith.
It was a hobby of his. He loved it.
In fact, he gave a lot of prayerful thought to the dimensions of the pyramid.
And from time to time, he would write into Bethel and let them know what his findings were to support the idea that the great pyramid had a place in Jehovah's purpose.
He loved it.
But when the watchtower of 1928 came out and said that Jehovah doesn't need a stone monument built by pagans to accomplish his purpose, Brother Smith accepted it.
He let reason win out over emotion.
Well, in recent years, the trend in our publications has been to look for the practical application of Bible events and not for types where the scriptures themselves do not clearly identify them as such.
We simply cannot go beyond what is written.
Now there's a real advantage in looking for the practical application of Bible accounts rather than confining certain applications to one class.
This applies only to the anointed. This applies only to the other sheep.
Let's see why.
Turn to Romans chapter 15 and verse 4.
And remember that Paul is writing to his anointed brothers here.
Romans chapter 15 and verse 4.
And he says, for all the things that were written beforehand, well, what things, the Hebrew scriptures, obviously, were written for our instruction.
So that through our endurance and through the comfort from the scriptures, we might have hope.
He's telling us Paul telling the anointed. He's telling them that you can learn from these accounts in the Hebrew scriptures.
You can apply the principles of the Hebrew scriptures to yourselves.
Let's consider an example.
Now soon after his conversion, Paul is preaching in the city of Damascus.
The Jews are furious and they try to kill him.
So anointed disciples take Paul and they lower him down the city wall in a basket.
Is it possible that some of those anointed ones, a thought of Rahab, who helped the two spies escape from Jericho by a similar method?
What anyone say to them, you can't apply that to yourselves. Rahab pictures the other sheep. You are the anointed.
No, they could apply the lessons of that account to themselves.
Now let's consider another example, a modern one.
In the Song of Solomon, we read of a chaste young virgin who falls desperately in love with a poor shepherd boy.
Solomon, who incidentally was still an inspired Bible writer at the time, but he's a very wealthy man.
He tries to lure her away, but he is unable to do so.
Now suppose that in a certain congregation there's a sweet young sister, who falls head over heels for a poor pioneer brother,
who is a real spiritual man, but he doesn't have a penny to his name.
Now her friends encourage her to marry a wealthy brother, who is very rich, but he doesn't have a lot of time for spiritual things.
But the sister remains firm. They say, you wouldn't have to work, you can pioneer.
She says, no, my love is for that pioneer boy.
Would anyone say to her, the Song of Solomon doesn't apply to you because you're of the other sheep, not of the anointed.
You see how practical it is to take these Bible accounts and really apply them to the everyday life of people.
Well, what about others of the other sheep today?
In this audience, there are modern day Nehemiahs who are spurring the building programs we have.
Wonderful young Timothy's, graduates of our Bible schools, warm-hearted Tabithas, hospitable Lydia's.
And don't we find exceptional young circuit overseers who are like a lie here, in giving wise counsel to elders who are much older than they.
And don't many Christian women remind us of dear Rebecca, who was willing to follow her husband to a distant land for the accomplishment of Jehovah's purpose.
We deeply appreciate the spiritual heritage that was passed on to us by the early Bible students.
In harmony with Zechariah chapter 4 and verse 10, we do not despise the day of small things.
However, the light does get brighter and we feel that we must follow the light wherever it leads us.
Our love should be for the truth and not for a particular doctrine or teaching.
Well, how would you summarize this talk in a few words?
The wrong answer is we don't believe in types and anti-types anymore.
We do. We most certainly do.
Where the scriptures identify them as such, we embrace them.
But where the Bible is silent, we must be silent.
Now in the three talks that follow, there are going to be important clarifications in our beliefs.
Perhaps a certain adjustment will touch a spiritual nerve.
Make us rethink a cherished teaching.
Our love for Jehovah and for the truth will move us to receive this information gladly and with open hearts.
Often today, we hear brothers say, we're having a hard time keeping up with the celestial chariot.
So are we. So are the governing body.
We're not driving the chariot.
Jehovah is driving the chariot and we're running just as fast as you are trying to keep up.
So let's all do our best to keep up with it.
And let us thank Jehovah for continuing to deal with us and for continuing to provide nourishing spiritual food.
Well, we truly thank you for the explain for that outstanding discourse.
Of course, now our appetites have been wedded for what's about to come.
And I'm sure you have many questions in your mind about what will the next talks hold?
Well, hold that thought.
Because now it's time to give our attention to Brother Carlo Capano as he conducts our next new song, which is entitled, Grant Us Boldness.
Brothers, we will follow the same procedure as brother explained did with the chorus.
So we'll be quick to start. The chorus will perform the song in its entirety. Grant us boldness.
Please take a look at the lyrics as we will demonstrate the first eight measures.
Your turn.
Two.
Well done.
17 through 24.
Keep your energy, friend.
Three.
25 through 31.
Take a good breath.
Now we'll sing through the first verse.
Please listen closely and study the lyrics to stretch your legs a bit and please stand.
We will have an introduction.
Before you sit down, we'll give you the opportunity to remain standing for just a little bit so we can go over some greetings and announcements.
But just before we do, what do you think of this Watch Tower chorus? Isn't that amazing?
So many brothers and sisters around the world are thinking about us today.
The brothers in France wrote to us and said our branch committee and the France Bethel family asked to convey our warm love and best wishes to all those in attendance.
From Haiti, they tell us we are pleased to announce that this past August a new all-time peak of 20,180 publishers were active in the ministry in our fertile field.
And from Madagascar, they mentioned that they achieved a 6% increase this year with 30,000 publishers. Wonderful.
In other than say, the month of August brought the 2014 service year to a glorious end with activity without precedent, how true.
And then we had this from Russia.
The Russia Bethel family is happy to convey our warmest Christian love and greetings to all assembled.
During the 2014 service year, we had a new peak of publishers, 171,268.
But there is still potential for further growth because 292,058 attended the memorial.
We rejoice being under the leadership of the heavenly King Jesus Christ and seeing how the words of Isaiah 54,17 are true.
No weapon formed against you will have any success.
We are convinced that the new service year will have new challenges but also new victories.
Well, finally, from Central America, Branch, we had this nice greeting.
They say Jehovah has been good to us as promised at Psalm 34,8 and in August 1,7,322 shared in the special campaign.
They close by saying, please accept our love and prayers as you enjoy this special historic occasion. Beautiful greetings.
Well, now here's one announcement we'd like to make.
Each of us has an opportunity to share in the joy of making voluntary offerings.
Contribution boxes are located throughout the facility for those who would like to give financial support to the worldwide work.
In addition, donations can be made by debit or credit card.
Please note that all contributions to the worldwide work of Jehovah's Witnesses are cared for by the local branch office.
Therefore, it would be appreciated if those who contribute by check would simply make their checks payable to Jehovah's Witnesses.
You may be seated.
Well, now that the brothers explain so beautifully wedded our appetites for the things to come, we are eager to go on with our scriptural talks.
And brother let of the governing body is now going to speak to us on the subject.
Will you keep on the watch?
Thousands and thousands of people die every year on the highway as a direct result of drivers going to sleep at the wheel.
But now think about this.
Going to sleep spiritually, of course, is much more serious.
If one of Jehovah's servants is driving, goes to sleep, runs off the road, kills himself.
It doesn't necessarily rule out he is being resurrected to everlasting life in the new world.
But if one of God's servants goes to sleep spiritually, and the end of this system catches him in that condition, he will be gone for all eternity.
No wonder there is so much exhortation, admonition, and God's word for us to stay awake spiritually.
Expression such as, prove yourselves ready.
Keep on the watch.
Keep ready.
Stay awake.
Keep looking, and similar variations are distributed throughout God's word, especially in the Christian Greek Scriptures.
And in harmony with this admonition, as you know, several of Jesus' parables are illustrations that manage us to keep on the watch.
Now, one of these parables we're going to focus on in this talk is the one about the ten virgins mentioned in Matthew chapter 25.
So please turn there.
Matthew chapter 25, and put your marker here, because throughout this talk we'll be discussing this parable.
Matthew 25, it's found in verses 1 through 13, so let's read it together.
It says, then the kingdom of the heavens may be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom.
Five of them were foolish, and five were discreet.
For the foolish took their lamps, but took no oil with them.
Whereas the discreet took oil in their flask along with their lamps.
While the bridegroom was delaying, they all became drowsy and fell asleep.
Right in the middle of the night there was a shout, here is the bridegroom, go out to median.
Then all those virgins got up and put their lamps in order.
The foolish said to the discreet, give us some of your oil because our lamps are about to go out.
The discreet answered, saying, perhaps there may not be enough for both us and you, go instead to those who sell it and buy some for yourselves.
While they were going off to buy it, the bridegroom came.
The virgins who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast and the door was shut.
Afterward the rest of the virgins also came saying, sir, sir, open to us.
In answer he said, I tell you the truth, I do not know you.
Keep on the watch, therefore, because you know neither the day nor the hour.
Now this is certainly a powerful parable indeed.
But there are three questions we want to focus on in our discussion concerning this parable.
Number one, what is the parable's basic message?
Number two, how to fateful anointed ones apply the parable's counsel and with what results?
And number three, how can each of us benefit from this parable today?
Now let's take that first question, what is the basic message of this parable?
Before we delve into answering that question, we'd like to just talk briefly about how in recent years we've received adjusted explanations concerning some of Jesus' parables or illustrations.
The fateful slave has come to realize there's no need to try to assign meaning to the numerous details in many of these parables or illustrations.
Now what has been the result of this? Well as resulted in explanations that are simpler, clearer, easier to understand and you could say even more powerful.
To help us better understand the fateful slave's way of prayerfully looking at some of these illustrations, let's take just quickly the illustration in Luke chapter 11 verses 5 through 12.
Now remember, that was about the man who boldly persisted in trying to borrow loaves from a neighbor and he did that at midnight.
Now the fateful slave has come to appreciate there's no need to try to assign meaning to all these details in this parable for example, who is represented by the neighbor that he went to borrow the loaves from?
Or what about the fact that he wanted to borrow not one, not two, three loaves? What's the significance of that?
Or what about the fact that he went at midnight? He didn't go at six o'clock, nine o'clock, eleven o'clock midnight. Now what's the significance of that?
Or what about the friend who was visiting you wanted to feed? Who's represented by this friend? Or what about the children of the neighbor? Or what about the fact the doors were already locked?
Well, if we try to micro-analyze the parable in this way, now what would happen? What do you think would happen?
Would we not end up distracted away from the simple parable lesson that Jesus was trying to convey? The lesson is very simple isn't it?
Jesus was conveying the thought that if we go to Jehovah in prayer and ask for Holy Spirit, then he's more than willing to grant our request.
And he's never going to say to us, even if we go again and again, he's never going to say quit making me trouble. The door is already locked.
Well, with this better understanding of our way of looking at these parables, these illustrations, let's go back to the parable at hand, the one about the ten virgins.
And let's go to that question, what is the parable's basic meaning?
Well, in the past, our literature, as you know, has a sign specific prophetic meaning to many of the details in this parable, for example, the lamps.
The oil, the flasks, previously the receptacles, the ones to whom the foolish virgins went to try to buy oil, et cetera, et cetera.
But in doing so, have we allowed the spotlight, perhaps, to drift from the powerful, simple message that Jesus was trying to convey?
Would Jehovah's help? Let's try to put the spotlight where it should be.
And even though we're not going to confuse you with a lot of information about what we used to believe concerning this parable,
we would like to say that what we're going to present now is a huge adjustment in our understanding of this parable.
To help us discern the parable's basic message, let us first identify the two main characters.
Number one, who is the bridegroom in our parable?
Well, you might recall, in a different occasion, Jesus referred to Himself as the bridegroom.
In Luke chapter 5, the Pharisees approached and they said, why is it your disciples don't fast?
John's disciples fast? Are disciples fast? Your disciples eat and drink?
Well, Jesus explained, when the bridegroom is with the friends of the bridegroom, why should they fast?
When the bridegroom is taken away, then they will fast.
Well, clearly, He was talking about how He was with them, but later He would be taken away.
So unmistakably, in our parable, Jesus is the bridegroom mentioned here.
So what about the virgins? Likely, you recall that both the Apostle Paul and the Apostle John under inspiration
wrote about how that Christ's anointed followers could be likened to chaste virgins.
2 Corinthians 112, the Apostle Paul did this. Revelation 144, where it talks about the 144,000,
it talks about there how they are virgins unmistakably.
The parable, when it talks about the 10 virgins, is talking about Christ anointed followers.
And obviously, this parable was meant to counsel warning to Christ anointed followers that they had better keep on the watch.
But now, what about the time frame of our parable?
Well, near the end of the parable, verse 10, Jesus gives a clear indication concerning the time frame.
It says in verse 10, the bridegroom came.
Now, obviously, this refers to the time during the great tribulation when Jesus will come to carry out judgment work
and destroy this wicked system of things.
But now, the parable, therefore, must apply during the last days with this climax coming during the great tribulation.
But what about the time frame of the parable?
Well, that time indicator indicates that the real climax is certainly going to come during the great tribulation.
But now, we ask this again, what is the basic message of this parable?
Well, think of the context.
What had Jesus discussed in the previous seven verses, right before this parable?
Well, he talked about the faithful and discreet slave, didn't he?
And he warned that slave.
You better not become an evil slave.
But now, what does he do in the verses that follow this parable we're discussing?
He broadens his focus to warn all anointed ones that they had better keep on the watch.
So that they're ready when the bridegroom arrives.
So what's interesting is that at the end of Matthew 24, the faithful slave is warned.
Beginning of Matthew 25, all the anointed are warned.
We take it to the end of Matthew 25.
We find there's an implied warning to the other sheep as to how they can be judged sheep rather than goats.
So Jehovah leaves no one out, does he?
He wants all his disciples to gain everlasting life.
See, all the followers of Jesus, he doesn't want them to miss out.
And if we do miss out, which is a terrible thought, we could never blame Jehovah, could we?
But now, let's go to that second question, please.
How do faithful anointed ones apply the parable's counsel and with what results?
Well, theocratic history testifies that throughout the last days,
faithful anointed Christians have exerted themselves vigorously to be just like those five discrete virgins.
Remember, they truly prepared themselves, didn't they?
To endure to the end, bringing extra oil along with their lamps.
Well, similarly, faithful anointed ones have counted the cost of faithful service.
They have realized from the outset that their assignment would mean giving up many of the material advantages of Satan's world.
They maintain their integrity.
They refuse to adopt the spirit of this wicked world and its unrighteous ways, and they continue shining.
As illuminators, despite maybe a seeming delay in the arrival of the bridegroom.
But they're undone it because they're not serving for a date.
They're not serving with a deadline in mind.
They loved Jehovah, and their determined to serve him for all eternity.
But what is mentioned in verse 5 by the fact that all the virgins got drowsy and went to sleep at least for a while?
Well, it constitutes a warning to all the anointed that spiritual drowsiness is a real danger.
It's not just an imagined, it's a real danger throughout the last days.
And it could happen to any, but the warning is don't be like these ones that went to sleep.
Or if you do go to sleep momentarily, then wake up.
See, just like the disciples in the garden of Guessimini, the weak flash, they went to sleep, but they woke up.
Well, likewise, wake up, learn from your mistake, henceforth remain prepared, ready, and vigilant.
Yes, that warning comes through loud and clear.
But now consider this interesting point.
There is a distinct interval between the shout, here is the bridegroom, verse 6, and the actual arrival of the bridegroom mentioned in verse 10.
Well, in like manner, there's a distinct interval between Jesus' presence.
He's being here and his actual arrival during the great tribulation.
The vigilant anointed ones, what if they discern, they've discerned that distinction between his presence,
meaning in 1914 and his actual arrival, which takes place during the great tribulation.
And they know that the challenge is to endure until his arrival.
And that now of all times is certainly no time to go to sleep spiritually.
However, perhaps the most puzzling part of the parable is the verbal exchange between the discreet and the foolish virgins, which takes place near the end of the parable.
Let's read this again. Matthew 25, please, let's read verses 8 and 9.
It says, the foolish said to the discreet, give us some of your oil, because our lamps are about to go out.
The discreet answered saying, perhaps there may not be enough both for us and you go instead to those who sell it and buy some for yourselves.
Now, this same strange, doesn't it? When in history have God's people refused to help someone who asked for help?
Well, the answer to that seemingly puzzling question presents itself if we think about the time frame again.
When does this verbal exchange take place? Well, it must take place during the great tribulation.
Just before the bridegroom comes near the end of the great tribulation, that must be when this verbal exchange takes place.
But now let's back up a little bit in the stream of time before that. What has happened before the great tribulation begins?
Well, all the anointed have received their final ceiling. We're familiar with Revelation 7 verses 1 through 4, the four angels holding back the four winds of the great tribulation, and they hold them back how long, until all the anointed are finally sealed.
In the forehead, and then the great tribulation begins. So before the great tribulation, that final ceiling has taken place. After that, their calling is sure.
But now, what about any anointed ones who failed to remain watchful during the years before the great tribulation? They would lose their heavenly calling.
They would not receive that final ceiling before the great tribulation begins. And they might be shocked when the great tribulation begins.
Because here they've been replaced because the number 144,000 has to be complete. So they would be perhaps shocked at this point realizing they had not received that final ceiling.
And at that late hour, if in desperation they asked for help, what would happen? Well, Jesus Parable gives the grim answer, doesn't it? It simply would be too late.
See, none of the faithful anointed could do anything to help those who have proved unfaithful during the great tribulation.
Anymore, then Noah could help once outside the ark once Jehovah closed the door and the flood began.
But now, ponder this. Since in the parable, five of the virgins are described as acting foolish. Does that mean that half of those claiming to be of anointed during the last days will prove unfaithful?
Will lose their reward? No. Remember, Jesus had just warned in the previous seven verses the fateful and discreet slave that he better not become an evil slave.
Did Jesus expect that outcome to take place? No. Our publications have pointed out it was a hypothetical situation saying, now, if you would prove to be this way, this is what would happen to you.
Well, similarly, this parable conveys a powerful warning to all the anointed. See, if you become like those five foolish, this would be the grim outcome for you.
But think of this. Just as five of the virgins were foolish, five are described as being discreet. That certainly gives us the idea that each one of the anointed has full capacity.
In fact, you could say equal capacity to choose vigilance, fatefulness, or folly unfaithfulness. That makes us think of Deuteronomy 30. Let's go there.
Deuteronomy 30. And you remember the words of Jehovah through Moses to the Israelites and it certainly applies to all the anointed. In fact, all of God's people.
But I notice Deuteronomy 30 verse 19, Jehovah says, I take the heavens and the earth as witnesses against you today that I have put life and death before you.
The blessing and the curse. And you must choose life so that you may live you and your descendants.
So notice the thought there. The choice is set before all as to what they choose. There are many things we can't choose.
For example, before you're born, you couldn't choose your relatives. Could you?
We couldn't choose our face. Many of us would have made a different choice. We had a choice.
When it comes to the most important thing in the universe, will we serve Jehovah or not? We can choose.
And of course, when we make the right choice, it makes Jehovah's heart glad. But why does it say there in verse 19, Jehovah saying, you must choose life.
That seems kind of contradictory, didn't it? You must choose. When you were very young, when did your parents ever say to you, you must choose to clean up your room?
You have to think about that one. They didn't give you a choice, didn't it? But it really is not a mistaken rendering. It reflects Jehovah's thinking.
See, he gives us the choice. But he really hopes he's urging us. You must choose if you want life. And I hope that you make this choice.
Jehovah and Jesus know that all of the anointed can choose to remain faithful. And they can receive the thrilling reward and what a thrilling reward it is if you think about it.
Think of immortality, incorruption, being empowered to truly be able to help humans and thus experience the greater gift of giving.
Think about direct association with Jehovah and Jesus in the heavens, what a thrilling reward it is.
But now a third question, and we'll just take a moment on this, how can each of us benefit from Jesus parable today?
In view of what we've discussed, should we conclude that this parable about the 10 virgins is only for the benefit of the anointed?
There's no benefit for Christ other sheep? Far from it. Remember, the message of the parable is simple.
It is summed up in the final verse, verse 13, where Jesus said, keep on the watch. Do you think Jehovah and Jesus would give that admonition only to the anointed? Certainly not.
If I go to Mark 13, please, Mark chapter 13, and let's read verse 37, notice what Jesus said to his disciples?
Verse 37, he said, but what I say to you, to his disciples who later became anointed ones, what I say to you, I say to all, keep on the watch.
So clearly, Jehovah and Jesus expect all, no matter what they're hope, to meet the same standard of watchfulness.
And we know we don't have two Bibles, do we? We don't have one Bible for the anointed one for the other sheep, we have one Bible, but this one Bible we have works very good, doesn't it?
We're helping all of us to keep on the watch. And it's good to recall, too, that in the parable, the foolish virgins asked the discreet for some of their oil, but it was a vain request, wasn't it?
Well, that reminds us that no one can be faithful for us, no one can stand the truth for us, no one can keep on the watch for us. We have to do it personally.
So we say we ask to all faithful anointed ones, and we ask to all precious other sheep, will you keep on the watch? Well, we know you're determined to do so.
That's why you're here at this meeting. And if we do our part, Jehovah, certainly going to do his, and we're going to be successful, see, yes, it's vital that we stay awake, keep on the watch, and it's more vital now than ever before.
And why is that? Because all the evidence corroborates, that the bridegroom is coming very soon.
Well, we thank you very much for the let that was outstanding. Well now, Brother Anthony Morris of the governing body is going to keep the momentum going, as he speaks to us now on the topic, the parable of the talents.
Jesus was a master when it came to illustrations, parables, and what was precious, precious, I should say about Jesus, he taught in such a clear and simple way.
That's what we should all those that teach in the congregation endeavor to achieve. So you won't hear me saying any Greek words during this talk. It's got to be clear, got to be simple.
So let's look at that illustration, Matthew chapter 25, and Brother let help us appreciate the context here has to do with the disciples keeping on the watch.
Now in the illustration that we're going to read here about the talents, the master is Jesus, and it's important to understand, he talks about this traveling abroad.
So the disciples at the time are thinking the kingdom's coming instantly, said no, he travels abroad, there's going to be considerable time involved.
Now here's the lesson that will help us all by extension the other sheep keep on the watch. Let's read it in its entirety, verses 14 through 30, Matthew 25.
For it is just like a man about to travel abroad who summoned his slaves and entrusted his belongings to them, he gave five talents to one to another and one to still another to each according to his own ability and he went abroad.
Immediately the one who received the five talents went and did business with them and gained five more. Likewise the one who received the two gained two more.
But the slave who received just one went off and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. After a long time the master those slaves came and settled accounts with them.
So the one who had received the five talents came forward and brought five additional talents saying master you entrusted five talents to me see I gained five talents more.
As master said to him well done good and faithful slave you were faithful over a few things I will appoint you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.
Finally the slave who had received the one talent came forward and said master you entrusted two talents to me see I gained two talents more.
Finally the slave who had received the one talent came forward and said master I knew you to be a demanding man reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you did not win him.
So I grew afraid and went and hid your talent in the ground here you have what is yours. In reply his master said to him wicked and sluggish slave you knew did you that I reap where I did not sow and gathered where I did not win him.
Well then you should have deposited my money with the bankers and I am my coming I would have received it back with interest.
Therefore take the talent away from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents for everyone who has more will be given and he will have an abundance but the one who does not have even what he has will be taken away from him and throw the good for nothing slave out into the darkness outside.
There is where his weeping and the gnashing of his teeth will be. So this is the illustration of the talents we have five key questions that will be addressing in this talk.
Two of them are adjusted understanding so pay attention and the first question what do the talents represent will establish that.
Second how have the talents been used. Third when does the master come to settle accounts with his slaves this is adjusted.
Fourth who does the wicked and sluggish slave represent this is adjusted understanding and then the fifth one what two lessons do we learn from this illustration.
Now I thought I would just quote our new kingdom book at this point and brother explain helped us to understand sometimes we will have cherished teachings.
We have been saying it for decades and we trust the brothers that printed it decades ago and that is fine but when it is time then we need to adjust our thinking if the teachings being adjusted.
It is not complicated. And we all just treasure our new kingdom book there is so many wise things in their illustrations artwork you can't find anyplace else than Bethel and now they are in a book.
So here is what we said on page 37 paragraph 18 and you will see how it applies to this which you just heard with brother let and you will hear here and you are going to hear with the Jackson by the way.
Just as Jehovah progressively revealed truth about the kingdom in the period leading up to 1914 he continues to do so during the time of the end.
God's people have had to adjust their understanding on a number of occasions does the fact that fact mean that they do not have Jehovah's backing on the contrary he supports them.
Why? Because those who fear Jehovah have displayed two qualities that he loves faith and humility.
Jehovah's servants have faith that all the promises and God's word will come true. They show humility when they admit that they misunderstood exactly how those promises would be fulfilled or the teachings.
That humble attitude is reflected in the March 1st 1925 issue of the watch tower and this is profound back 1925 quote we know that the Lord is his own interpreter that he will interpret his word to his people in his own good way and in his own due time.
Jehovah's running this organization he's the rider of the chariot and we're pleased to follow the best we can and keep up with it.
So what are the talents represent well we had eight talents there that's a huge fortune if you're dealing with the denari they'd earn about a denarius a day so it takes 6,000 denari to earn just one talent.
So an average worker back at that time would have to work 20 years to accumulate that kind of money.
So before traveling abroad Jesus distributed the talents here and he expected them to do business.
It's all you business men out there business women you know if you run a business you expect business to be done so Jesus is borrowing that mentality toward the work he had for his disciples.
So just like this man Jesus had something of great value before he ascended to heaven and he attached great importance to the preaching work and teaching work.
And while on the earth he cultivated that rich field there the potential and he told his disciples you'll recall lift your eyes and view the fields they're white for harvesting.
And shortly after his resurrection and before he ascended those monumentally important words go therefore to make disciples.
So committing his belongings to his disciples simply put the talents referred to the responsibility that we have to preach and teach to make disciples it's very simple that's the talent preach and make disciples.
How have the talents been used well he gave five to one two to the other one to the other one and he expected them to do business and in the first century they really applied the illustration because where he says in verse 16 immediately the one that received the five talents went and did business.
Well the book of Acts makes it very clear those first century Christians did just so they immediately went about doing the king's business and making increase now during the time after the apostles died there's we know Satan fermented the apostasy and so really while the first century they had some activity there we can relate to.
There are no sustained efforts during all those centuries where anybody was trying to fulfill the commission to preach and make disciples get a little glimmers of things happening so during that time the weeds were just overrunning all of the wheat that was available.
Well then we come to the harvest time in particular we're talking about 1919 and the faithful anointed slaves on earth have been doing business during these last days the anointed brothers and I might add anointed sisters have done their best so who has the five talents and who represents those having the two talents.
Thank you for not raising your hand the hosts in the audience here because there's no need to speculate about that okay so stop it if you've been speculating.
All it's got to be the governing body no then say that all the Jesus is trying to get across they're going to do their best some get the workload of five others are doing two they doubled their efforts that's all.
Now what role do those with an earthly hope play oh boy very important role very important role his illustration of the sheep and the goats teaches us that those with the earthly hope have the honor of loyally supporting Christ brothers.
I remember telling a friend of mine once where I wasn't treated too well in this particular branch territory and I said to my friend well it's not me they need to worry about it's my big brother that's where they better worry about.
Yeah we got to pray for those men over there so during these last days the two groups that work together is one flock zealously carrying out the work and I just want to take make an opportunity here I don't see if there's a clock okay so just to take the opportunity when we think about what happened this past August and we're getting some reports in and you'll have more than you talk about a loud shout.
A loud shout of praise and most were other sheep out there it's just phenomenal that historic month what happened and don't have time to go into some of these early reports already but just astounding it's just in raging the devil the amazing support that was given to August the last day of the service month a service year and all these pioneers helped.
You know God loves them because usually in August they're taking it easy and I don't want to lose the opportunity to thank all the brothers and sisters that are coming here to help construct our soon to be headquarters in warwick and you help the wall kill and tuxedo all this construction you disrupted your lives and you temporary workers that are coming in six months a year they're about see that's part of the preachers.
We're working brother guy Pierce was always fun of telling young Bethelites you'd have to be in the circuit work to support more publishers and at a young age you're supporting hundreds of publishers by working at Bethel.
So your sacred service in these construction projects that's all part of it supporting Christ the brothers in the gardening body notices you from our rooms there in Brooklyn anyway we hours of the morning
head now to the buses coming back in with the high viz equipment on for safety factors of construction come in late tired but everybody's happy and we just want to commend you for your self-sacrificing spirit.
The third question when does the master come to settle accounts this is adjusted as well.
In the past here's what we've said Jesus settled accounts with the slaves in 1919 but when we reexamine the illustration in the context it's very clear to us that we needed to adjust our understanding.
His coming to settle accounts can take place during the great chivalry just like the virgins the brother let spoke about in his part so what leads us to this conclusion now I know this is probably most spiritually astute audience that you'll speak before.
People brothers and sisters from all over the world maybe you notice this maybe a hadn't some of you teaching the schools I'm sure have go back to chapter 24 so when we speak about.
What leads us to this conclusion there in verse three he's sitting on the Mount of Olives they want to know when all this is going to happen as I said earlier they're thinking the kingdom's going to come instantly.
So you notice verse four in answer so this is a teaching session in answer Jesus said to them and he starts teaching look see the quotation well if you follow this it goes all the way through chapter 24.
He speaks about this faithful slave the evil slave now go over chapter 25 in the very first verse same teaching session this is not two weeks later same occasion he's teaching answering this question and he does this all the way to the end of that 25th chapter it's the context that leads us to the proper conclusion.
In this prophecy of Matthew 24 and 25 he repeatedly mentions his coming and he's referring to the judgment during the great tribulation see the son of men coming on the clouds of heaven that's the great tribulation and he's urging his followers living in the last days to be vigilant you don't know the day or the hour in the Lord's coming.
Coming at an hour that you that's the disciples do not think to be it. So Hanson you see verse 19 of Matthew 25 after a long time the master those slaves came that's he came and settled accounts during the great tribulation he's referring to that time who's going to execute judgment at the end of the system.
So those represented by the first two slaves hard working anointed disciples as you know already received their final seal and before the great tribulation breaks out and then before I'm again they receive their heavenly reward and just prior to Armageddon those with the earthly hope of supported Christ's brothers loyalty in the preaching work will be judged as sheep and be granted the privilege of living in the earthly realm of the kingdom.
Now here's the next adjusted understanding with question number four who does the wicked and sluggish slave represent now in the parable the last slave buried his talent he showed a bad spirit he deliberately worked against the master's interest the master was not harsh but properly pronounced him wicked and sluggish.
Jehovah and Jesus do not tolerate sluggish when it comes to the worship of him and this disciple making word. Now in the past what we said was that the wicked slave pictured a class of anointed ones who in 1914 refused to preach however think about it.
In this illustration and remember what brother let spoke about with the virgins was Jesus here for telling that a significant number of his anointed followers would prove to be wicked and sluggish.
The context indicates otherwise now the illustration the faithful discrete slave he spoke about the evil slave that was simply to warn the faithful don't ever get like that.
And then like brother let mentioned with the ten virgins just warning you don't keep on the watch you're going to lose your sense of vigilance you're not going to be ready you're a foolish virgin.
So in the context it seems reasonable to conclude that in the illustration of the talents he was not fortelling a large number of his anointed brothers during the last days who would be wicked and sluggish.
This is as we've said before there's no wicked slave class that has arisen in the last days. Now it's granted the fact is that some professed anointed did prove to be wicked and sluggish and refused to do business or that's a fact just like some other sheep refused to be faithful and loyal to Christ's brothers.
Jesus's warning is anointed followers remain diligent and avoid the attitudes and actions of a wicked slave. So our fifth one what two lessons do we learn from this illustration?
Well first the master Christ has entrusted his anointed slaves with something he views as precious the commission to preach and make disciples.
I can assure you each and every one of the brothers on the governing body cherish this privilege. How about you? Do you cherish the privilege to preach and make disciples of Christ Jesus?
Now the second one second lesson Christ expects all of us the anointed and the other sheep to be diligent in the preaching word. Now if we are we can be sure we're going to be rewarded for our faith or vigilance and loyalty.
Indeed how eager we are to hear those words well done good and faithful slave enter into the joy of your master.
Oh we truly thank you brother Morris for that outstanding discourse. Now we're going to just change topic a little bit. We're looking forward to hearing from brother Jeffrey Jackson of the governing body and his theme is in the form of an intriguing question.
Who will soon attack God's people. I'm sure each one of us agrees that in recent times we've been excited with our adjusted understanding with regard to the great tribulation.
In just the last few months we've had some very interesting articles in the watchtower that have helped us to realize that the anointed will not remain on earth after the battle of Armageddon.
We've seen an explanation with regard to Matthew 24 verse 31 where it speaks about the final gathering of the chosen ones.
Just a few months ago we had a very interesting article talking about Micah chapter 5 verse 5 and we understood there what the Assyrian invading our land represents.
And we've certainly appreciated the adjusted understanding with regard to what Jesus coming really involves.
And now to that list we can add what we've learnt today about the parable of the virgins and the parable of the talents.
It seems that the closer we get to the outbreak of the great tribulation the finer our understanding is being tuned.
And I'm sure we all agree that we appreciate that because obviously Jehovah wants us to prepare for the events that are just shortly ahead of us.
We realize from studying the scriptures that soon after the outbreak of the great tribulation then as time goes on before the anointed are taken to heaven.
There will be an attack on God's people now all of us are very very interested in the meaning of that because most of us will probably be involved with this attack coming to us.
You know that immediately a thinking of Ezekiel chapter 38 and 39, Gog of May Gogh.
But who really is Gog of May Gogh?
Well we're running a little overtime so we thought we'll leave that for next year.
I don't think they're going to let me walk off the platform.
A number of years our publications have explained that Gog of May Gogh refers to Satan the devil particularly after his ouster from heaven.
And we base that on an understanding of what Revelation tells us that Satan is the primary one who is interested in destroying God's people.
For example Revelation chapter 12 highlights that.
But it's interesting when we look at that explanation some questions come to mind.
Would you like to look at some of those questions?
Turn with me please to Ezekiel chapter 38.
Excuse me please. This Bible is getting very heavy after this long program maybe.
Maybe I'll use my backup electronic tablet.
Ezekiel chapter 39 let's read that if no one comes out and takes me off the platform.
Chapter 39 verse 4.
On the mountains of Israel you will fall and all your troops and the peoples who will be with you.
I will give you as food to all kinds of birds of prey and the wild beasts of the field.
And if you look down to verse 11 what does that say?
Again with regard to Gog of May Gogh.
On that day I will give Gogh a burial place there in Israel in the valley of those who travel east of the sea.
And then it goes on to talk about Gogh being buried.
Now what questions arise?
I'm sure you already starting to think about them.
How could a spirit creature be eaten by the birds of heaven and the wild beasts?
And how could Satan be buried here on earth?
Well that does cause a problem doesn't it?
In addition to that let's turn our Bibles to Revelation chapter 20 and verses 7 and 8.
And this we could say raises a related question.
So Revelation 20 verses 7 and 8.
And here it speaks about the end of the thousand years and what occurs after that.
Now as soon as the thousand years have ended Satan will be released from his prison
and he will go out to mislead those nations in the four corners of the earth, Gogh and May Gogh.
Well you know the rest of the verse.
Now what question comes to mind?
Well if Satan is Gogh how can he mislead Gogh and May Gogh?
Well all of these are very good questions.
So what does it help us to see?
Clearly when we study Ezekiel 38 and 39 together with Revelation 20,
we see that Gogh does not refer to the Spirit creature Satan the devil.
Well who then is Gogh of May Gogh?
To answer that question we need to look at the scriptures at a whole
and to find out who really attacks God's people in the future.
Now when we look at the scriptures what do we see?
It doesn't only refer to the attack of Gogh of May Gogh
but there's a reference to an attack from the King of the North.
Also the scriptures tell us the kings of the nations will be involved with opposing God's people.
The watchtower recently raised the question,
are these all different attacks?
Or perhaps do they highlight just one attack under different names?
Well the watchtower made a comment, are they different attacks?
The answer was not likely.
It seems that the Bible is referring to this one attack under different names.
Now why can we draw that conclusion?
Well when we look at what the scriptures say,
all the nations of the earth will be involved somehow in this attack on God's people.
So when we look at the testimony here in the scriptures,
we can see that it's evident that Gogh of May Gogh does not refer to Satan the devil
but to a coalition of nations.
Let me say that again.
The name Gogh of May Gogh refers not to Satan but to a coalition of nations.
Now I know what you're thinking.
You're thinking, will this coalition be led by the figurative King of the North?
We can't say for certain.
But this thought does seem to be in harmony with what is revealed in the book of Ezekiel.
Now let's look again, this time at Ezekiel chapter 38.
We'll look at verse 6 and also verse 15.
Now remember the question is somehow the attack by the King of the North associated with this.
Verse 6 tells us notice that the troops come from the remotest parts of the North.
Then if we look down to verse 15, what else does it tell us there?
It speaks about you will come from your place and where is that place from the remotest parts of the North.
Now while we're thinking about this similarity between the attack of Gogh of May Gogh and the attack by the King of the North,
let's take our Bibles and turn to Daniel chapter 11 and remember Daniel was a contemporary of Ezekiel.
In chapter 11 verses 44 and 45, the last two verses in Daniel chapter 11.
Now what does this tell us about the King of the North?
But reports out of the east and out of the North will disturb him.
And he will go out in a great, great rage to annihilate and to devote many to destruction.
And he will plant his royal tents between this grancy and the holy mountain of decoration.
And he will come all the way to his end and there will be no helper for him.
Well this sounds very similar, doesn't it, to what is described in Ezekiel chapter 38.
But what happens next? Well you might be saying that's the end of chapter 11.
Well remember back in ancient times there weren't chapters and verses, so let's read on.
That makes sense, doesn't it? In chapter 12 and verse 1, during that time, now that was good we kept reading, wasn't it?
I mean obviously there's some connection.
During that time Michael, now we know Michael is another reference to how Lord Jesus Christ will stand up.
And we understand that to mean during the great tribulation.
The great prince who is standing in behalf of your people.
And again we understand that Jesus is already standing since 1914, now for 100 years he is standing.
And what does it say, he is standing in behalf of your people.
And there will occur a time of distress. What time? The great tribulation.
Such as not occurred since there came to be a nation until that time.
And during that time your people will escape everyone who has found written down in the book.
So do we see the parallels there? Even though we can't be dogmatic about it, we look forward to the future to see how it's all going to work out.
But there certainly are some similarities there between the attack of Gog of May Gog and the attack of the king of the north.
But what about that other scripture we referred to in Revelation 20 verse 8.
About the end of the thousand years, the time when there is a Gog and May Gog.
How do they fit into the picture?
Well we could say the murderous rebels at the time of the great tribulation who want to attack God's people.
They have a similar spirit manifested by those at the end of the thousand years who likewise wish to attack God's people.
So that same murderous attitude that opposing rebellious attitude is similar.
And the fate or the end of these ones is exactly the same isn't it.
All these ones will experience everlasting death.
Now I also know there's a question that you're thinking.
Who is the king of the north?
We have to leave something for another annual meeting.
You see as keen students of the scriptures we can say that at this point in time still it hasn't become totally evident as to who is the king of the north.
We look forward to the future.
We'll see that as things develop it will become clear to us who the king of the north is.
What is involved with the attack by Gog of May Gog.
But in the meantime what do we know?
Well we know for sure that when Gog of May Gog attacks he is going to be defeated and then destroyed completely.
And also what do we know?
God's people will be saved and I should into a new world of righteousness and truth peace and security.
And how do we feel about that?
We say hallelujah!
May Jehovah be praised.
Well we thank you brother Jackson for that outstanding discourse.
What a marvelous annual meeting this has been.
It's been a true banquet of spiritual things.
Wouldn't you agree?
Well that raises an important question.
Is the annual meeting over now?
Is this the end of the blessings that we're going to receive today?
Well how exciting it was last October to receive the revised English edition of the New World Translation in printed and electronic formats.
Well now since that time as you all know the large size edition has been made available.
Can you guess?
Well I'm very pleased to announce today the release of the pocket size edition of the revised English edition of the New World Translation.
Of course this will be a wonderful blessing for those who are struggling to carry the large print edition.
Well now when will you receive this beautiful new gift from Jehovah?
Well I'm pleased to tell you that one copy is available for each one here in attendance in Jersey City but also for all of the satellite locations who are tied within us this day.
So you can receive one copy as you exit from your respective seating locations.
Now for those of the Bethel family who are tied in in their Bethel family rooms.
You can feel free to pick up your copy in the normal Bethel literature areas after the meeting concludes.
Now congregations can begin to request the pocket size edition starting Monday October 6, 2014.
So it sounds like Monday is going to be a historic day.
Well now speaking about our revised English edition of the New World Translation many of you have been asking if we will be producing a new audio recording of the Bible based on this new edition.
Well the answer is yes this audio Bible is now in production but the style of recording is different from the previous recording of the Bible.
Would you like to hear a sample of the new style of Bible reading?
Well then would you please open your Bibles with me to Matthew chapter 15 and we're going to listen to verses 21 to 31.
That's Matthew 15, 21 to 31.
Please follow along.
Leaving there Jesus now went into the region of Tyre and Sidon and look a Phoenician woman from that region came and cried out.
Have mercy on me Lord son of David my daughter is cruelly demon possessed.
But he did not say a word and answer to her so his disciples came and began to urge him.
Send her away because she keeps crying out after us.
He answered I was not sent to anyone except to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
But the woman came and did obeisance to him saying Lord help me in answer he said it is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.
She said yes Lord but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.
Then Jesus replied to her oh woman great is your faith let it happen to you as you wish and her daughter was healed from that hour on.
Departing from there Jesus next came near the sea of Galilee and after going up on the mountain he was sitting there.
Then large crowds approached him bringing along people who were lame.
Mamed blind speechless and many others and they laid them at his feet and he cured them.
So the crowd felt amazement as they saw the speechless speaking and the maimed being made sound and the lame walking and the blind seeing and they glorified the God of Israel.
Well the governing body has approved the posting of these audio files of individual books on JW.org as they are completed rather than waiting for all the books of the Bible to be completed.
Well it's hoped that these will begin to be posted on JW.org in the next few months.
Well brothers and sisters truly we can say this has been a glorious day and we have so many reasons to thank Jehovah and truly as we face the time of the end.
How important it is for each of us to take time to thank Jehovah not just today but every day.
Taking time to meditate on the blessings that we have in our lives the many gifts that we receive from Jehovah is essential.
If we are not going to be overwhelmed by negativity but rather we are going to maintain our joy in serving God.
The Bible is filled with reminders for us to give thanks to Jehovah and to show ourselves grateful.
Well regardless of the challenges we each may have in our lives when we are conscious of our blessings when we take time to meditate on them when we take time to thank Jehovah for them we are fortified we are strengthened.
So dear brothers and sisters now as we look ahead to the 2015 service here we know that we are going to experience many many wonderful blessings.
We may also experience some challenges but come what may may we be determined to follow to follow the council of our 2015 year text.
Now are you ready? It's Psalm 106 and verse 1. Psalm 106 verse 1 says, give thanks to Jehovah for he is good.
That is our year text for 2015. Well it's been a delight to be together with all of you for this historic annual meeting.
And as a governing body we want to express that we truly love each and every one of you and we ask that you would please continue to pray for us just as we are continually praying for each one of you.
Well now just for some final announcements to prevent overcrowding on the sidewalks here in Jersey City we're asking all to exit out the back of the auditorium and through the main lobby at the conclusion of the program.
Exceptions will be made for elderly ones who have arrangements in place to be picked up on Pavonia Avenue.
Now I know you're wondering about our attendance today so let me give you the figures give you a minute to get a pen.
Here in Jersey City Assembly Hall we have 4,903 in Brooklyn 3,922 in Patterson 3,299 at Walkill 3,574 at Warwick Tuxedo 1,976 in Canada
1,125 in Puerto Rico 147 in Jamaica 61 in Palm Coast Florida 102 and at the 4th Lauderdale Remote Translation Office 20 which gives us a total of 19,129 for this historic annual meeting.
Now just before we conclude there's one last announcement and that's concerning those who have parked in the kidney parking garage.
You may have your parking ticket validated in the lobby of the assembly hall at a reduced rate so we want to remind you of that before you leave the building.
Well now to conclude our program we're going to give our attention once again to Brother Carlo Capano as he conducts our closing song Jehovah Is Your Name.
Brother following the same pattern as our last song the chorus will sing this terrific song of praise to Jehovah's great name in its entirety.
Measures 1 through 8 you to sing with good expression.
We notice we have seven honorary members to our chorus. Here to my right.